PDF_PAGE 9
PROFIsafe System Description 5
Figure 6: The complete safety communication 
paths
The individual safety parameters of a F-Device are 
technology-specific, e.g. drives with integrated 
safety, laser scanners, etc. Handling these 
iParameters via GSD would entail tremendous 
efforts and unnecessary dependencies. It therefore 
has to be possible for F-Device developers 
to integrate their individual configuration, 
parameterization and diagnostic tools (CPD tools) 
via appropriate interfaces into the engineering tools 
of system vendors. This facilitates the navigation 
and communication to the specific F-Device or 
F-Module.
For fast F-Device replacement in case of a failure, 
the system has to support "Save and Restore" 
functionality for individual safety parameters 
(iPar-Server) in a uniform way. Usually the F-Host or 
the controller that provides the basic bus start-up 
parameterization provides also this feature.
Supplementary documentation defines all aspects 
of deployment of PROFIsafe devices such as 
requirements for
• Installation
• Electrical safety
• Power supplies
• Electromagnetic compatibility
• Data security
Finally, strong support for developers of PROFIsafe 
in F-Devices or F-Modules is available in the form of 
PROFIsafe development kits, competence centers 
and test centers.
In its current version, PROFIsafe meets all of 
these requirements. The final concept is still 
straightforward and easy to understand.
Before we learn more about PROFIsafe in detail let‘s 
take a look at some preconditions and constraints.
3. "Black Channel"
Even though PROFIsafe uses the "Black Channel" 
principle, there are some basic features of PROFIBUS 
and PROFINET that were considered for its design.
3.1. Basic features
One such feature is the cyclic communication 
between a bus controller and its associated field 
devices (send and receive response principle). This 
polling operation will immediately detect any failed 
device. PROFIsafe adopted this principle.
The other feature is the 1:1 communication 
relationship between a bus controller and its 
associated field devices. PROFIsafe also adopts this 
principle to ensure the authenticity of messages. 
3.2. Network components
A "Black Channel" may comprise several types of 
transparent network components such as switches, 
routers, links, and wireless transmission channels. 
For PROFIsafe, minor constraints exist in order to 
meet the SIL3 requirements.
Any kind of switch is permitted but only 100 can be 
connected in a row. The Codename space within a 
PROFIsafe island must be unique. Connected islands 
with the same Codename space must be separated 
by multiport routers. There are no restrictions for 
links such as from PROFINET to PROFIBUS and from 
there to the intrinsic safety version MBP-IS (figure 6).
3.3. Wireless
Wireless transmission is permitted as long as 
sufficient availability (no nuisance trips) and 
security can be guaranteed.
PROFIsafe specifies certain security requirements 
for wireless transmission and for wired networks 
that are connected to industrial Ethernet backbones 
or the Internet (open networks).
3.4. Data types
In general, fieldbus communication uses different 
data types for information transfer (see literature 
box on page 11). In order to reduce complexity, 
PROFIsafe offers a reasonable subset.
PDF_PAGE 10
PROFIsafe System Description6
3.5. Selective tripping
PI‘s document "Remote IO for Factory Automation  
(RIO for FA)" specifies so-called qualifier bits 
associated to process values to indicate validity. 
This allows individual user reaction per process 
value. PROFIsafe offers an additional configurable 
prevention from automatic machine start.
4. PROFIsafe – the solution
It is the objective of safety communication between 
two partners to deliver:
• updated and correct data (data integrity),
• to the intended destination (authenticity), 
• just-in-time (timeliness).
Various errors may occur when messages are 
transferred in complex network topologies, 
whether due to hardware failures, extraordinary 
electromagnetic interference, or other influences. A 
message can be lost, occur repeatedly, be inserted 
from somewhere else, appear delayed or in an 
incorrect sequence, and/or show corrupted data. In 
the case of safety communications, there may also 
be incorrect addressing: a message erroneously 
appears at a wrong F-Device and pretends to be a 
correct safety message. Different transmission rates 
may additionally cause bus component storage 
effects to occur. Out of the numerous remedies 
known from literature, PROFIsafe focuses on those 
presented in the matrix shown in figure 7.
Figure 7: Error types and safety measures
4.1. Safety measures
These safety measures include:
• The numbering of the PROFIsafe messages 
(sequence error detection used for "timeliness")
• A time expectation with acknowledgment 
(timeout error detection used for "timeliness") 
• A Codename between sender and receiver 
("authentication")
• Data integrity checks (CRC = cyclic redundancy 
check) 
Using the Monitoring Number, a receiver can 
see whether or not it received the messages 
within the correct sequence. When it returns a 
message with the Monitoring Number only as an 
acknowledgment to the sender, the sender, too, 
will be assured. Basically, a simple "toggle bit" 
would have proven sufficient. However, due to 
the storage buffers in some bus components, e.g. 
switches, a 32-bit Monitoring Number was selected 
for PROFIsafe. 
As safety systems are real-time systems, process 
signals must not only be delivered correctly, but 
also in time. In case of timeliness errors, the safety 
system will initiate a safe reaction, e.g. safely stop 
the movement of a drive. For this purpose, F-Devices 
utilize a watchdog timer that is restarted whenever 
a new PROFIsafe message with a new subsequent 
Monitoring Number arrives.
The 1:1 relationship between the F-Host and a 
F-Device facilitates the detection of misdirected 
message frames. Sender and receiver must simply 
have identification (Codename) that is unique 
in the network, and can be used for verifying the 
authenticity of a PROFIsafe message. PROFIsafe‘s 
Codename is called "F-Address" .
A cyclic redundancy check (CRC) plays a key role 
in detecting corrupted data bits. The necessary 
probabilistic examination makes use of the 
definitions within the IEC 61508 that considers the 
probability of dangerous failures of entire safety 
functions. PROFIsafe follows this approach (figure 8). 
Figure 8:  Safety function and SIL
PDF_PAGE 11
PROFIsafe System Description 7
According to IEC 61508, a safety circuit includes 
all sensors, actuators, transfer elements and logic 
processes that are involved in a safety function. IEC 
61508 defines overall values for the probability of 
failures for different safety integrity levels. 
For example, for SIL3 this is 10-7/h. PROFIsafe uses a 
carefully selected 32-bit CRC generator polynomial, 
which ensures a probability of dangerous failures 
per hour of less than 10-9/h. This value is guaranteed, 
independent of the "Black Channel" in use. Thus, 
even in SIL3 applications, less than 1% of the overall 
budget of 10-7/h per safety function is consumed by 
PROFIsafe, leaving 99% of the budget for failures in 
sensors, actuators, or logic operations. 
4.2. PROFIsafe formats
A PROFIsafe message that is exchanged between 
F-Host and its F-Device is carried within the payload 
of a standard PROFIBUS or PROFINET message. In 
case of a modular F-Device with several F-Modules, 
the payload consists of several PROFIsafe messages. 
Figure 9 shows the format of a safety protocol data 
unit (SPDU).
Figure 9: PROFIsafe SPDU format
The data unit consists of three fields. The first field 
contains the F-Input or F-Output data using the 
already-mentioned subset of data types. These 
data structures of a particular F-Device usually are 
defined via its associated GSD (General Station 
Description) file. Normally, factory automation and 
process automation place different requirements 
upon a safety system. One deals with short ("bit") 
signals that must be processed at a very high speed, 
the other involves longer ("floating point") process 
values that may take a little more time. PROFIsafe 
recommends using 1 up to 12/13 bytes F-Input/
Output data for factory automation applications 
since all F-Hosts are obliged to support at least this 
data length. However, the measures of PROFIsafe 
(CRC signature) are laid-out such that data lengths 
up to a maximum of 123 bytes can be supported.
The second field consists of a Control Byte if the 
SPDU was sent by the F-Host or a Status Byte if it 
was sent by the F-Device. This information helps 
synchronizing the sender and receiver of PROFIsafe 
SPDUs.
The third field of a PROFIsafe SPDU is a 32 bit CRC 
signature.
The Monitoring Number is not transmitted within 
a PROFIsafe SPDU. Both sender and receiver use 
their own Monitoring Number generators that are 
synchronized via the Control Byte and Status Byte. 
Correct synchronization is monitored through the 
inclusion of the Monitoring Number values into the 
CRC signature calculation. The generators are based 
on an efficient pseudorandom number generator. 
Every connection uses a different seed for the 
generator, derived from its respective Codename 
("F-Address").
4.3. PROFIsafe services
Sender and receiver of PROFIsafe SPDUs are located 
in layers above the "Black Channel" communication 
layers (figure 5). Usually, these PROFIsafe layers 
are realized in software ("drivers"). Their central 
functionality is a state machine controlling the 
regular cyclic processing of PROFIsafe messages 
and the exceptions such as start-up, power-on/off, 
CRC error handling, etc. Figure 10 shows how the 
PROFIsafe layers interact with the technology part 
in F-Devices and with the user program in F-Hosts.
Figure 10: PROFIsafe layer structure in F-Host 
and F-Device
F-Host services
The main services provide exchange of F-Output 
and F-Input data. During start-up, or in case of 
errors, the actual process values are replaced by 
default fail-safe values (FV). These fail-safe values 
shall be all "0" to force the receiver into a safe state 
(e.g. de-energize). 
PDF_PAGE 12
PROFIsafe System Description8
For F-Devices where de-energize is not the only 
possible safe state such as with burner ventilators, 
PROFIsafe provides additional services via a flag 
"activate_FV" in the Control Byte. In return, a F-Device 
can inform the user program that it has activated its 
safe state via a flag "FV_activated" in the Status Byte.
PROFIsafe communication errors cause the F-Host 
driver to switch into a safe state. A safety function 
is usually not allowed to automatically switch from 
a safe state to normal operation without human 
interaction. To inform the user program that an 
operator intervention and acknowledgment is 
requested, PROFIsafe provides an additional service 
"OA_Req" . PROFIsafe informs the F-Device about a 
pending request such that the F-Device can indicate 
it via a LED (optional). The operator acknowledgment 
can be passed over from the user program to the 
F-Host driver via a corresponding service "OA_C" .
The technology-specific parameters of a F-Device are 
called iParameters. In case a F-Device needs different 
iParameters at runtime, another set of services is 
available. The service "iPar_EN" allows the user 
program to switch the F-Device into a mode during 
which it will accept new iParameters. The companion 
service "iPar_OK" indicates to the user program the 
readiness to resume normal safety operation.
F-Device services
The PROFIsafe services for F-Device technology 
include the corresponding exchange of F-Output 
and F-Input data, the extra possibility to activate 
and report fail-safe values, the indicators for the 
iParameter handling and for the already mentioned 
operator request.
Additionally, the F-Device technology is able to 
report F-Device faults to the F-Host driver via the flag 
"Device_Fault" in the Status Byte. 
The duration of the demand of a F-Device for a safety 
reaction shall be long enough to be transmitted 
by the PROFIsafe communication (at least two 
subsequent Monitoring Numbers). A special service 
informs the technology about new Monitoring 
Numbers in order to facilitate the realization of this 
requirement.
Diagnostic information from the PROFIsafe layer may 
be passed over to the technology part via a special 
service.
Last but not least the technology is able to pass 
over the F-Parameters to the PROFIsafe layer. The 
F-Device receives these F-Parameters together with 
all the other parameters during startup. What is the 
purpose of these F-Parameters?
F-Parameter
The F-Parameters provide the PROFIsafe layer 
information to adjust its behavior to particular 
customer needs and to double-check the correctness 
of assignments. The most important F-Parameters 
are:
• F_S/D_Address (short: "F-Address")
• F_WD_Time
• F_SIL
• F_iPar_CRC
• F_Par_CRC
The "F_Address" is a unique connection identification 
for F-Devices/F-Modules within one PROFIsafe island 
and corresponds to the Codename. The F-Device 
technology compares this "F-Address" with the 
locally assigned value of a micro switch or otherwise 
entered information to ensure the authenticity of the 
connection. 
The F_WD_Time specifies a number of milliseconds 
for a watchdog timer. This timer monitors the 
reception of the next valid PROFIsafe SPDU.
F_SIL indicates the SIL expected by the user for the 
particular F_Device. It is compared with the locally 
stored manufacturer information.
F_iPar_CRC is a signature across all the iParameters 
within the technology of the F-Device.
Finally, the F_Par_CRC is a signature across all the 
F-Parameters. It is used to ensure correct delivery of 
the F-Parameters.
5. How to implement?
First of all, it should be made sure, that all the 
necessary and helpful literature for the work that is 
available from PI has been obtained (see Literature 
box on Page 11). Use the denoted or a later version. A 
previous version V1.30 of the PROFIsafe specification 
has been withdrawn. 
Next, it is recommended to study at least the basic 
safety standard IEC 61508 or get some consultancy 
on what needs to be established in your development 
processes and in your organization to achieve the 
necessary safety for your device. As a general rule, it 
is not possible to turn a standard device into a safety 
device just by implementing the PROFIsafe protocol. 
This is due to the fact that PROFIsafe protects against 
transmission errors on the Black Channel, but not 
against errors occurring within the F-Devices itself. 
The architecture of the F-Device safety technology 
together with the protocol and the manner in which 
both are implemented define the final SIL of the 
device.
PDF_PAGE 13
PROFIsafe System Description 9
5.1. Safety classes
Even though PROFIsafe is suitable for safety 
functions up to SIL3, it may not be necessary to 
design and develop the F-Device also for SIL3. The 
required safety class depends on the final customer 
application and on how the safety functions are 
defined. It may be possible through redundancy or 
other measures to achieve higher safety integrity 
levels with F-Devices of an even lower safety class 
(see Chapter 9.6. "PA-Devices").
5.2. F-Device
In addition to the possibility of implementing the 
PROFIsafe specification from scratch, development 
kits are available on the market. See the product 
finder on the PI website for further information. The 
advantage of using a development kit is obvious: 
pre-certified driver software, additional valuable 
information and tools, and support.
For the PROFIBUS and PROFINET interface, you can 
use any of the available ASICs and layer stacks and 
adapt the PROFIsafe driver software.
Securing the GSD 
For every device on PROFIBUS or PROFINET, a General 
Station Description (GSD file) is necessary. After 
defining the common part of the GSD for a F-Device, 
the coding of the F-Parameters is necessary. This 
section of the F-Parameters must be protected by 
a special CRC signature "F_ParamDescCRC" against 
data corruption on storage media. A configuration 
tool can check the data integrity of the F-Parameter 
description section utilizing this special signature, 
which is also a part of the GSD file.
Securing configurations
The GSD file also contains descriptions for the 
F-Input and/or F-Output data structures. In order 
to secure this part of the GSD file, another CRC 
signature "F_IO_StructureDescCRC" is used.
iParameter
According to the many different safety device 
technologies there is a huge variety of individual 
safety parameters (iParameter). 
The amount of iParameters ranges from a few bytes 
for a F-Module up to several tens of kBytes for a 
laser scanner. For most of the safety devices, special 
parameterization and diagnostic software tools 
(CPD-Tool) already exist: therefore it does not make 
sense to handle iParameters via the GSD. PROFIsafe 
therefore recommends using a new mechanism, the 
so-called Universal-Parameter-Server (iPar-Server). 
It is the responsibility of F-Host manufacturers to 
provide this capability, whether it is realized within 
Figure 11:  The iPar-Server concept
PDF_PAGE 14
PROFIsafe System Description10
the non-safety part of F-Host acting as the fieldbus 
parameterization master or within a controlled 
subsystem such as a non-safety PLC or an industrial 
computer on the same network. 
Figure 11 demonstrates the principal steps of the 
iPar-Server mechanism by an example. Together with 
the network configuration and F-Parameterization 
of a F-Device, an associated iPar-Server function 
is instantiated (1). The F-Device is able to switch 
into the data exchange mode while using a safe 
state (FV). An associated CPD tool can be launched 
via an appropriate interface (2) such as TCI (Tool 
Calling Interface) or FDT (Field Device Tool) from 
the engineering tool, propagating at least the node 
address of the configured device. Parameterization, 
commissioning, testing, etc., can be executed with 
the help of the CPD tool (3). After finalization, the 
iPar_CRC signature is calculated and displayed in 
hexadecimal form for (at least) copying and pasting 
of this value into the "F_iPar_CRC" entry field of 
the configuration part of the engineering tool (4). 
A restart of the F-Device is necessary to transfer 
the "F_iPar_CRC" parameter into the F-Device (5). 
After final verification and release, the F-Device is 
enabled to initiate an upload notification (6) to its 
iPar-Server instance. It thereby utilizes the standard 
diagnosis mechanism. The iPar-Server polls the 
diagnosis information (e.g. RDIAG FB) to interpret 
the request (R) and to establish the upload process 
(7), storing the iParameters as instance data within 
the iPar-Server host using acyclic services (Read 
Record).
After the replacement of a defective F-Device, the 
new F-Device receives its F-Parameters, including 
the "F_iPar_CRC" , at start-up. As iParameters 
are normally missing in a replacement or a 
non-retentive F-Device, it recognizes a difference 
between the "F_iPar_CRC" and its stored 
iParameters and initiates a download notification 
(6) to its iPar-Server instance, again using the 
standard diagnosis mechanism. The iPar-Server 
polls the diagnosis information to interpret the 
request (R) and to establish the download process 
(Write Record). Through this transfer the F-Device 
is enabled to provide the original functionality 
without further engineering or CPD tools.
PROFIdrive
The IEC 61800-5-2 defines some safety features 
for drives with integrated safety. These features 
comprise a group of stopping functions:
• Safe torque off (de-energize)
• Safe stop 1
• Safe stop 2
• Safe operating stop
And a group of other safety subfunctions:
• Safely limited acceleration
• Safely limited speed
• Safely limited torque / force
• Safely limited (absolute) position
• Safely limited increment
• Safe direction
• Safely limited motor temperature 
Figure 12 illustrates how electro mechanics are 
replaced by electronic safety stops and monitoring 
subfunctions. One major objective is to mainly 
monitor the operations of the drive control and to 
de-energize only in case of failures. The working 
group PROFIdrive within PI is specifying parts of 
these subfunctions in a special amendment to their 
PROFIdrive specification (see Literature box).
Figure 12: Drives with integrated safety STOP 
and monitoring subfunctions
PA Devices
F-Devices for process automation follow the sector 
standard IEC 61511, which takes into account the 
particular aspect of "proven-in-use" . Under certain 
conditions, a PA-Device may achieve a better SIL 
if it is considered to be proven-in-use. PA Devices 
usually follow the design models of IEC 61804. 
The Electronic Device Description (EDD) plays an 
important role here. Therefore, the PI Working 
Group "PA Devices" also specified, within a separate 
amendment to their PA Device specification, how 
to use the PROFIsafe platform for their devices and 
parameterization methodologies (see Literature 
box).
I&M functions
Since 2005, I&M functions are mandatory for 
all PROFIBUS and PROFINET devices providing 
acyclic services. I&M stands for Identification and 
Maintenance and allows retrieving information 
about the device‘s manufacturer code, its catalog 
and serial number, and its hardware and software 
PDF_PAGE 15
PROFIsafe System Description 11
versions in a standardized manner. Via the 
manufacturer code and additional information on 
the PI website, the user can be directed to the most 
current product information on the manufacturer‘s 
website. See the Profile Guideline (Literature box).
Diagnosis
One of the major advantages of PROFIBUS and 
PROFINET is the possibility for devices to report 
diagnostics information to the operator in 
exceptional situations such as failures or errors. 
Good diagnostics information helps in reducing 
down times of facilities and thus costs. The concepts 
not only cover how to code the information but 
also how to provide foreign language support and 
how to provide HELP information on what to do in 
a particular situation. See the corresponding Profile 
Guideline (Literature box).
Literature box
• PROFIsafe Policy V1.5; Order No. 2.282
• PROFIsafe – Profile for Safety Technology 
on PROFIBUS DP and PROFINET IO, V2.6.1; 
Order No. 3.192
• PROFIsafe – Environmental Requirements, 
V2.6; Order No. 2.232
• PROFIsafe – Test Specification for F-Slaves, 
F-Devices, and F-Hosts, V2.2; Order No. 2.242
• PROFIsafe for PA-Devices, V1.0.1; Order No. 
3.042
• PROFIdrive on PROFIsafe, V3.00.4; Order No. 
3.272
• Specification for PROFIBUS Device 
Description and Device Integration, Volume 
1: GSD, V5.1; Order No. 2.122
• GSDML Specification for PROFINET IO, 
V2.3.2; Order No. 2.352
• Profile Guideline, Part 1: Identification & 
Maintenance Functions, V2.0; Order No. 
3.502
• Profile Guideline, Part 2: Data Types, 
Programming Languages, and Platforms, 
V1.0; Order No. 3.512
• Profile Guideline, Part 3: Diagnosis, Alarms 
and Time Stamping, V1.0; Order No. 3.522
• Profile Guideline, Part 4: Universal Parameter 
Server, V1.0.1; Order No. 3.532
• Diagnosis for PROFINET IO, V1.1; Order No. 
7.142 
• Rapid way to PROFIBUS DP; Order No. 4.072
• Industrial Communications with PROFINET;  
Order No. 4.182
5.3. F-Host
Depending on the strategy of system manufacturers, 
different kinds of architectures for F-Hosts with 
PROFIsafe communication are possible: stand-
alone F-CPUs or integrated but logically separated 
safety processing within standard CPUs.
Possible structures
Safety processing itself can be realized in many 
different ways also: for example via hardware 
redundancy and discrepancy checking or via 
"software redundancy" or via "safeguarding" or by 
using already existing diverse hardware platforms. 
Development kits are available.
Conformance classes
In order to ensure that all F-Devices will be 
supported by all the PROFIsafe F-Hosts on the 
market, PROFIsafe specifies conformance classes 
for F-Hosts. PROFIsafe F-Hosts shall meet the 
requirements of these conformance classes as a 
precondition for PI certification (figure 13).
6. Conformity & 
certification
Several products of different types from various 
vendors communicate within a PROFIsafe island. 
The products must be implemented conforming 
to the PROFIsafe specification to ensure that 
this communication works correctly. Usually the 
conformance is documented through a certificate 
from the PI Certification Office based on the test 
report of one of the accredited PI test laboratories.
6.1. The PROFIsafe tests
The PROFIsafe protocol mechanisms are based 
on finite state machines. It was possible to 
mathematically prove that PROFIsafe works 
correctly, even in cases where more than two 
independent errors or failures occur. This was 
achieved by systematically generating all possible 
cases for "test-to-pass" and "test-to-fail" situations. 
They have been extracted as test cases for a fully 
automated PROFIsafe layer tester, which is used to 
check the PROFIsafe conformance of F-Devices and 
F-Hosts. It is part of a three-step-procedure within 
the overall safety certification process according to 
IEC 61508 by assessment bodies (figure 13).