2.1.6. Field description
In many cases, further explanation about how or when to use certain fields in messages and datatypes is given in the field
description. See Chapter Messages.
2.2. Terminology
2.2.1. General Terminology
This section contains the terminology that is used throughout this document.
Table 2. Terminology
Terminology Description
Application layer OSI-Layer 5-7.
Authentication Authentication is the process of confirming an identity or attribute. When speaking about
authentication one should distinguish between user authentication (e.g. sender/receiver) and
message authentication.
Block cipher Cryptographic primitive to encrypt/decrypt messages of fixed block length. Example: AES
encrypts blocks of 128 bits (16 bytes) at a time.
Cable Plugged in In this document this can mean the following:
- Cable fixed on Charging Station side, cable plugged in to EV
- Cable plugged into the Charging Station and EV
- Wireless Charger detects an EV
Certificate A digital certificate authenticates a public key or entity. See also Public-Key Infrastructure.
Certificate Management Protocol An internet protocol used to manage X.509 digital certificates within a PKI. It is described in
RFC 4210 and uses the certificate request message format (CRMF) described in RFC 4211.
Charging Cable Cable assembly equipped with a, by the EV accepted, plug, intended to be used for the
connection between an EV and an EVSE. One side may be permanently attached to the EVSE,
or also be equipped with a plug that is accepted by the EVSE.
Charging Loop In this specification the ISO 15118-2 definition of the charging loop is used: the V2G messaging
phase for controlling the charging process by ISO 15118.
Charging Profile Generic Charging Profile, used for different types of Profiles. Contains information about the
Profile and holds the ChargingSchedule.
Charging Schedule Part of a Charging Profile. Defines a block of charging Power or Current limits. Can contain a
start time and length.
Charging Station The Charging Station is the physical system where EVs can be charged. A Charging Station
has one or more EVSEs.
Composite Charging Schedule The charging schedule as calculated by the Charging Station. It is the result of the calculation
of all active schedules and possible local limits present in the Charging Station. Local Limits
might be taken into account.
Confidentiality Only authorized entities may access confidential data. To protect data from unauthorized
access it can be encrypted. Then only entities with access to the secret keys can access the
data after decrypting it.
Connector The term Connector, as used in this specification, refers to an independently operated and
managed electrical outlet on a Charging Station. In other words, this corresponds to a single
physical Connector. In some cases an EVSE may have multiple physical socket types and/or
tethered cable/Connector arrangements(i.e. Connectors) to facilitate different vehicle types
(e.g. four-wheeled EVs and electric scooters).
Contactor An electrically controlled switching device, typically used by Charging Stations to switch
charging power on/off.
Contract Certificate A valid certificate for a charging contract in an EV for 15118 communication.
Control Pilot signal A signal used by a Charging Station to inform an EV of a maximum current limit, as defined by
IEC61851-1.
Cost Cost to be paid by an EV Driver for consumed energy/time etc. Including taxes.
Cryptographic hash function Cryptographic hash functions should behave as one-way functions. They must be preimage
resistant, 2nd preimage resistant, and collision-resistant. Changes in the input must produce
explicitly different results in the output. Example: SHA-256. See also ENISA, reference OCPP
Security [1].
Edition 2, 2025-12-03 Generic
OCPP 2.1 Edition 2 - © Open Charge Alliance 2025 6/803 Part 2 - Specification