Terminology Description
Cryptography The ENISA Algorithms, Key Sizes and Parameters Report (OCPP Security [1]) provides an
overview of the current state of the art.
CSMS Charging Station Management System. The system that manages Charging Stations and has
the information for authorizing Users for using its Charging Stations.
Data Integrity See Integrity and Message authentication.
Digital Signature Authenticates the sender. In practice digital signatures are implemented using elliptic curves
(EC).
Encryption Using a cryptographic scheme, the message is mapped to a random-looking undecipherable
string (ciphertext). Decryption reverses the encryption process and can only be performed with
the corresponding decryption key. This decryption key is either the same as the encryption key
(symmetric cryptography) or the private key in a public-key cryptosystem. The confidentiality
of the message can be guaranteed only while the keys are kept secret.
Energy Management System A device that manages the local loads (consumption and production) based on local and/or
contractual constraints and/or contractual incentives. It has additional inputs, such as sensors
and controls from e.g. PV, battery storage.
Energy Offer Period Time during which a Charging Station is ready and willing to offer energy to an EV.
Energy Transfer Period Time during which an EV chooses to take offered energy, or return it.
EVSE EVSE stands for "EV Supply Equipment". An EVSE is considered to be an independently
operated and managed part of the Charging Station that can deliver energy to one EV at a time.
Hash function Function that maps a message to a bit string of fixed length (hash value). See also
cryptographic hash function.
Hash value Output of a (cryptographic) hash function. The length is fixed in the specs of the hash function.
High level communication Bidirectional digital communication using protocol and messages and physical and data link
layers specified in ISO 15118 series [ISO15118-1]
Idle State In both use cases and sequence diagrams, Idle state is referred as the state in which a
Charging Station is not performing any use case related tasks. Condition during which the
equipment can promptly provide a primary function but is not doing so.
Integrity Data cannot be altered without authorization. See also Message authentication.
Local Controller A logical entity between a CSMS and one or more Charging Stations that has the ability to
control charging of a group of Charging Stations based on the input from the CSMS, and can
send messages to its Charging Stations, independently of the CSMS.
Master Pass IdToken that can be used to stop any (or all) ongoing transactions. This can be used by for
example law enforcement personal to stop a transaction.
Master Pass UI Master Pass User Interface, this might be a full color touchscreen, but might also be just a
couple of buttons and LEDs and/or sounds that enable a user to select transactions to be
stopped.
Message authentication Messages should be protected against unauthorized modifications. The message should
always be sent together with an authentication tag providing its authenticity. Such an
authentication tag can be the second output of an authenticated cipher such as AES-CCM or
AES-GCM or a message authentication code.
Mode of Operation A mode of operation specifies how the message blocks are processed by the block cipher.
Using a block cipher in CBC or CTR mode provides encryption only, whereas using a block
cipher in CCM or GCM mode encrypts the plaintext and produces a message authentication
tag for the ciphertext.
OCPP-J OCPP via JSON over WebSocket.
Offline There is no communication possible between the Charging Station and CSMS. For an OCPP-J
connection this means the WebSocket connection is not open.
Password authentication The user proves his/her identity using a password or PIN.
Phase Rotation Defines the wiring order of the phases between the electrical meter (or if absent, the grid
connection), and the Charging Station Connector.
Price Specific price tag of a single tariff entry, for example: 0.35 per kWh incl. 18% VAT.
Edition 2, 2025-12-03 Generic
OCPP 2.1 Edition 2 - © Open Charge Alliance 2025 7/803 Part 2 - Specification