Terminology Description
Public-key cryptography "Cryptographic scheme where a public key is published and henceforth can be used for
encryption of messages or verification of digital signatures. Each public key has a counterpart,
the corresponding private key. This key must be kept secret and is used for decryption or
digital signing of messages. Public-key primitives have a high computational complexity for
encryption and therefore are mostly used as part of a hybrid encryption scheme where the
public key is used to communicate a common symmetric session key under which all further
communication is encrypted. Certificates administered by a public-key infrastructure are used
to establish the authenticity of the public key. See also ENISA, reference OCPP Security [12].
The most popular public-key encryption scheme is RSA. Digital signatures can be generated
most efficiently with elliptic-curve based (EC) mechanisms."
Public-key infrastructure System to generate, administer, and revoke certificates.
Resume regular transaction Used in sequence diagrams to indicate that this use case/sequence diagram has ended, but
the transaction has not ended and will continue, but that is outside of scope of that specific
use case.
Requirement Provision that conveys criteria to be fulfilled. ISO/IEC Guide 2:2004, 7.5.
Security Event Any event relevant to the secure operation of the device.
Security Function Any function on the device that is needed for it to be operated securely, including access
control, authentication, and encryption.
Session A Session in OCPP is a general term that refers to the charging process of an EV, that might
include a Transaction.
Session key Symmetric key with a limited lifetime.
Symmetric cryptography Sender and receiver hold the same key. Examples for symmetric primitives are block ciphers or
MACs.
Transaction A transaction in OCPP is a part of the complete process of charging an EV that starts and
stops based on configurable parameters. These configurable parameters refer to moments in
the charging process, such as the EV being connected or the EV driver being authorized.
Tariff Collection of prices depending on charging time, power usage and other price affecting
parameters.
Use case A use case is a structured way of describing the (inter)actions necessary to achieve a certain
objective. In this document, a use case consists of an actor list, a scenario description,
postconditions and a sequence diagram and is always followed by a list of numbered
requirements.
User Authentication Verification of the identity of the communication partners (e.g., user on the device). Moreover,
verification that the communication partners are still alive throughout a session.
OCPP 2.1 DER terminology
Cease to Energize Halting the delivery of active power during stable and unstable conditions while restricting the
exchange of reactive power.
DER Curve A set of points that outline a curve representing the adjustments required for the Y-axis value
based on the X-axis value. An example of this is the Volt-Watt curve or P(U), which determines
active power based on voltage.
Distributed Energy Resource
(DER)
An electricity source that is not directly linked to a bulk power system. DER comprises
generators and energy storage technologies that can provide active power to an electrical
power system. For the purposes of this document, a bidirectional charging station and
bidirectional EV make up a DER.
Frequency Droop A type of frequency-watt curve defined by a dead-band between under- and over-frequency,
and a frequency change per unit power output change (frequency droop) for under- and over-
frequencies.
Momentary Cessation A temporary halt to active power delivery in response to voltage or system frequency
disruptions, with the ability to immediately restore operation output when the voltages and
frequency return to specified ranges.
Nameplate Ratings Capabilities of a DER for sustained operation, e.g. nominal voltage (V), current (A), maximum
active power (kW), apparent power (kVA), and reactive power (kvar).
Ride-Through Curve A specific type of DER curve represented as a piecewise linear curve that defines regions
associated with voltage and frequency behavior for trip, momentary cessation, and may trip.
Ride-Through The ability to withstand voltage or frequency disruptions within specified limits and continue
operating as specified.
Trip Curve Similar to a ride-through curve, but without momentary cessation.
Trip The inhibition of immediate service restoration, which may require disconnection.
Edition 2, 2025-12-03 Generic
OCPP 2.1 Edition 2 - © Open Charge Alliance 2025 8/803 Part 2 - Specification