1.3. Security Profiles
This section defines the different OCPP security profiles and their requirement. OCPP 2.1 supports three security profiles:
The table below shows which security measures are used by which profile.
Table 12. Overview of OCPP security profiles
Profile Charging Station
Authentication
CSMS
Authentication
Communication
Security
1. Unsecured Transport with Basic
Authentication
HTTP Basic Authentication - -
2. TLS with Basic Authentication HTTP Basic Authentication TLS authentication
using certificate
Transport Layer Security
(TLS)
3. TLS with Client Side Certificates TLS authentication
using certificate
TLS authentication
using certificate
Transport Layer Security
(TLS)
• The Unsecured Transport with Basic Authentication Profile does not include authentication for the CSMS, or measures to
set up a secure communication channel. Therefore, it should only be used in trusted networks, for instance in networks
where there is a VPN between the CSMS and the Charging Station. For field operation it is highly recommended to use a
security profile with TLS.
• In some cases (e.g. lab installations, test setups, etc.) one might prefer to use OCPP 2.1 without implementing security.
While this is possible, it is NOT considered a valid OCPP 2.1 implementation.
• When the Charging Station does not have the correct date and time set, it cannot validate the server certificate. A solution
for this might be to either use NTP, mobile network to set time automatically, or have an installer tool that sets the time
before the first connection.
1.3.1. Generic Security Profile requirements
Table 13. Generic Security Profile requirements
ID Precondition Requirement definition
A00.FR.001 The Charging Station and CSMS SHALL only use one security profile at a
time
A00.FR.002 If the Charging Station tries to
connect with a different profile than
the CSMS is using
The CSMS SHALL terminate the connection.
A00.FR.004 The security profile SHALL be configured before OCPP communication is
possible.
A00.FR.005 Lowering the security profile that is used, to a less secure profile, is for
security reasons, not recommended.
The Charging Station SHALL only allow to lower the security profile if the
variable AllowSecurityProfileDowngrade is implemented and set to true. In
that case, the Charging Station SHALL only allow to downgrade from
profile 3 to profile 2. The Charging Station SHALL NOT allow to
downgrade from profile 2 or profile 3 to profile 1 using the OCPP protocol.
A00.FR.006 When a CSMS communicates with
Charging Stations with different
security profiles or different versions
of OCPP.
The CSMS MAY operate the Charging Stations via different addresses or
ports of the CSMS.
For instance, the CSMS server may have one TCP port for TLS with Basic
Authentication, and another port for TLS with Client Side Certificates.
In this case there is only one security profile in use per port of the CSMS,
which is allowed.
1.3.2. Unsecured Transport with Basic Authentication Profile - 1
Table 14. Security Profile 1 - Unsecured Transport with Basic Authentication
No. Type Description
1 Name Unsecured Transport with Basic Authentication
Edition 2, 2025-12-03 A. Security
OCPP 2.1 Edition 2 - © Open Charge Alliance 2025 21/803 Part 2 - Specification