1.5. Certificate Revocation
This section is normative.
In some cases a certificate may become invalid prior to the expiration of the validity period. Such cases include changes of the
organization name, or the compromise or suspected compromise of the certificate’s private key. In such cases, the certificate
needs to be revoked or indicate it is no longer valid. The revocation of the certificate does not mean that the connection needs to
be closed as the connection can stay open longer than 24 hours.
Different methods are recommended for certificate revocation, see below Table.
Table 23. Recommended revocation methods for the different certificates.
Certificate Revocation
CSMS certificate Fast expiration
Charging Station certificate Online verification
Firmware Signing certificate Online verification
Table 24. Certificate Revocation requirements
ID Precondition Requirement definition
A00.FR.701 Fast expiration SHOULD be used to revoke the CSMS certificate. (See
Note 1)
A00.FR.702 The CSMS SHOULD use online certificate verification to verify the validity
of the Charging Station certificates.
A00.FR.703 It is RECOMMENDED that a separate certificate authority server is used to
manage the certificates.
A00.FR.704 A00.FR.703 This server SHOULD also keep track of which certificates have been
revoked.
A00.FR.705 The CSMS SHALL verify the validity of the certificate with the certificate
authority server. (See Note 2)
A00.FR.707 Prior to providing the certificate for firmware validation to the Charging
Station, the CSMS SHOULD validate both, the certificate and the signed
firmware update.
Note 1: With fast expiration, the certificate is only valid for a short period, less than 24 hours. After that the server needs to request
a new certificate from the Certificate Authority, which may be the CSO itself (see section Certificate Hierarchy). This prevents the
Charging Stations from needing to implement revocation lists or online certificate verification. This simplifies the implementation
of certificate management at the Charging Station and reduces communication costs at the Charging Station side. By requiring fast
expiration, if the certificate is compromised, the impact is reduced to only a short period.
When the certificate chain should becomes compromised, attackers could used forged certificates to trick a Charging Station to
connect to a "fake" CSMS. By using fast expiration, the time a Charging Station is vulnerable is greatly reduced.
The Charging Station always communicates with the Certificate Authority through the CSMS, this way, if the Charging Station is
compromised, the Charging Station cannot attack the CA directly.
Note 2: This allows for immediate revocation of Charging Station certificates. Revocation of Charging Station certificates will
happen for instance when a Charging Station is removed. This is more common than revoking the CSMS certificate, which is
normally only done when it is compromised.
1.6. Installation
This section is normative.
Unique credentials should be used to authenticate each Charging Station to the CSMS, whether they are the password used for
HTTP Basic Authentication (see Charging Station Authentication) or the Charging Station certificate. These unique credentials have
to be put on the Charging Station at some point during manufacturing or installation.
Table 25. Certificate Installation requirements
Edition 2, 2025-12-03 A. Security
OCPP 2.1 Edition 2 - © Open Charge Alliance 2025 31/803 Part 2 - Specification