C06 - Authorization using local id type
This is an informative use case. Its purpose is to demonstrate the use of the idToken type Local.
No. Type Description
1 Name Authorization using local id type
2 ID C06
3 Objective(s) Enable the Charging Station to start charging with a locally generated IdToken.
4 Description When a Charging Station needs to start a Transaction for a Driver that has no RFID, or the RFID is
not known. For Example, the EV Driver uses a parking ticket to start charging.
Actors EV Driver, Payment Terminal, CSMS, Charging Station
Scenario description 1. An EV driver drives into a garage, takes a parking ticket at the barrier at the entrance.
2. Parks his EV at a Charging Station.
3. Plugs in the charging cable.
4. Scans/inserts his parking ticket on the Charging Station to start Charging
5. EV is charging, driver leaves.
6. EV driver returns, inserts parking ticket into a payment kiosk
7. Pays for parking and charging
8. The Payment terminal/kiosk sends a stop command via the CSMS to the Charging Station.
9. EV driver unplugs the charging cable and drives away.
Alternative scenario(s) C01 - EV Driver Authorization using RFID
C02 - Authorization using a start button
C03 - Authorization using credit/debit card
C04 - Authorization using PIN-code
C05 - Authorization for CSMS initiated transactions
C07 - Authorization using Contract Certificates
C08 - Authorization at EVSE using ISO 15118 External Identification Means (EIM)
C15 - Unknown Offline Authorization
5 Prerequisites Integrated parking & charging payment system
6 Postcondition(s) The transaction has completed at the Charging Station and Transaction information is available
at the CSMS.
7 Error Handling n/a
8 Remarks This use case uses an Parking Ticket as example, but this is not a requirement.
The communication between the Payment Terminal and the CSMS is outside of scope of OCPP.
The scenario description and sequence diagram above are based on the Configuration Variable
for start & stop transaction being configured as follows:
TxStartPoint: EVConnected
TxStopPoint: ParkingBayOccupancy, EVConnected
This use-case is also valid for other configurations, but then the transaction might start/stop at
another moment, which might change the sequence in which message are send. For more details
see the use cases: E01 - Start Transaction options and E06 - Stop Transaction options.
Edition 2, 2025-12-03 C. Authorization
OCPP 2.1 Edition 2 - © Open Charge Alliance 2025 101/803 Part 2 - Specification