Chapter 2. Use cases & Requirements
I01 - Show EV Driver-specific Tariff Information
No. Type Description
1 Name Show EV Driver-specific Tariff Information
2 ID I01
3 Objective(s) To show an EV Driver-specific tariff before the start of a transaction.
4 Description When an EV Driver wants to charge an EV he wants to know how much charging will cost him at
the Charging Station he is at. The EV Driver is authenticated by his (RFID) token. The Charging
Station asks the CSMS for information about the presented token. The CSMS returns information
about the token, including the tariff applicable to this EV Driver.
Actors Charging Station, CSMS, EV Driver
Scenario description 1. The EV Driver wants to charge an EV, he presents his IdTokenType.
2. The Charging Station sends AuthorizeRequest to the CSMS to request authorization.
3. Upon receipt of AuthorizeRequest, the CSMS responds with AuthorizeResponse. This response
message indicates whether or not the IdTokenType is accepted by the CSMS, and reports the EV
Driver-specific tariff in the IdTokenInfo.personalMessage field.
4. The Charging Station shows the EV Driver-specific tariff to the EV Driver.
Alternative scenario(s) I04 - Show Fallback Tariff Information
5 Prerequisite(s) The Charging Station supports Tariff Information and uses central cost calculation by CSMS.
6 Postcondition(s) Successful postcondition:
The EV Driver is authorized, knows which tariff is applicable for him/her and can start charging.
Failure postcondition:
If the authorization status is other than Accepted, the EV Driver can not start and might not know
the tariff.
7 Error Handling n/a
8 Remarks 
Updated in OCPP 2.1
This use case is only about displaying a textual representation of the tariff. This can be used
when support for the TariffType structure for tariffs from I07 - Local Cost Calculation - Set Default
Tariff is not supported.
The tariff information presented might be the same for any token presented.
If known, and applicable, it is advisable to show the tariff information in a language understood by
the EV Driver.
It is advisable to give the driver the option to cancel the transaction when he does not agree with
the tariff. This could be not plugging in the cable, or a cancel button in the user interface etc. As
long at it is clear to the driver how a transaction can be canceled.
Edition 2, 2025-12-03 I. Tariff And Cost
OCPP 2.1 Edition 2 - © Open Charge Alliance 2025 276/803 Part 2 - Specification