Chapter 1. Introduction
The work on the ISO 15118 document series started in 2009 with the goal of defining a high-level communication interface that
would work in conjunction with the IEC 61851 document series. The major purpose of ISO 15118 is to establish a more advanced
and autonomously working charge control mechanism between EVs and charging infrastructures. The ISO 15118 standard has
been widely adopted, with several parts already published and implemented, including e.g. ISO 15118-1 and ISO 15118-2. ISO
15118-20 was published in 2022, which introduces significant new capabilities. ISO 15118-20 enhances support for Plug and
Charge (PnC), enabling seamless authentication and authorization, and introduces bidirectional power flow allowing electric
vehicles (EVs) to both draw power from and return power to the grid. The standard also supports higher charging speeds through
advanced power management, enables wireless charging (inductive charging) of EVs and specifies pantograph charging.
Additionally, it introduces enhanced security features and improved certificate handling. These advancements aim to optimize the
automated management of charging services, scheduling, and the integration of renewable energy, making the communication
between EVs and charging infrastructure more efficient and flexible.
The ISO 15118-2 standard is of interest to the Open Charge Alliance, as it provides the exchange of charging schedules and enables
to control the amount of power that an EV may draw from a Charging Station, in which some form of vehicle to grid communication
is necessary. Especially the second part, which specifies the messages to be exchanged between the communication partners
(Application Layer), the associated data and data types (Presentation Layer) via TCP/IP based Transport and Network Layer, is
important to acknowledge in this specification. The authorization for charging is provided either by External Identification Means
(EIM), such as an RFID card, or by the Plug and Charge (PnC) mechanism using a contract certificate stored in the EV, handled by
the certificate handling process in use case elements "C", eliminating the need of other authorization means.
This Functional Block has been designed to meet a number of alignment objectives:
• To allow the communication between an EV (BEV or a PHEV) and an EVSE.
• To allow the support of certificate-based authentication and authorization at the Charging Station, i.e. plug and charge.
For illustration purposes: the figure below shows a complete sequence with authorization and scheduling.
NOTE To the below figures: these sequences only apply for AC charging, although the certificate handling (which is the
focus in this section) does not differ in AC or DC.
Edition 2, 2025-12-03 M. Certificate Management
OCPP 2.1 Edition 2 - © Open Charge Alliance 2025 427/803 Part 2 - Specification