Chapter 1. Introduction
Utilities consider a charging station (or group of charging stations) that is performing bidirectional charging/discharging as a
Distributed Energy Resource (DER). A DER needs to adhere to the local grid codes that govern how it should react in case of grid
anomalies. This is controlled by a range of settings and curves that determine how to respond to frequencies or voltages that are
too high or too low.
NOTE
A utility may also require grid code support for charging-only Charging Stations, for example to provide frequency
support. This chapter uses the term "DER control" for both bidirectional as well as charging-only Charging
Stations.
Utilities usually require a DER to be registered and conform to certain regulations before it is permitted to provide energy to the grid.
DC bidirectional (vehicle-to-grid) EVSEs could be registered in this way, because an EVSE is a stationary inverter for a battery pack
(the EV). An AC bidirectional EV, however, uses its onboard inverter and is not stationary at all — it might charge and discharge at
different locations. There is currently no regulation that covers the registration of AC bidirectional EVs.
In the US an EV capable of AC vehicle-to-grid shall be certified to the automotive standard SAE J3072 (which also calls out
certification to IEEE 1547). However, as system operators want to have additional assurance that the EV follows the grid code, the
EVSE shall also be certified to UL 1741, which allows the EVSE to monitor grid code compliance and disconnect the EV if the grid
code is not followed. The SAE J3072 standard requires its own interface that connects to the inverter in the EV. There are at the
time of publication (2024) few EV OEMs that have implemented this interface.
This specification assumes that the utility does not directly interface with charging stations or EVs for DER control, because the
charging stations are only controlled by CSO, and the EVs have no interface with the utility. Instead, the CSO acts as an aggregator
who controls (groups of) charging stations. The CSO, as aggregator, is assumed to take care of scheduling DER control messages
towards charging stations when the utility sends (a schedule of) DER control messages.
The interface from CSO to a charging station is the OCPP protocol. OCPP 2.1 supports sending DER control messages, as
described in this chapter.
Edition 2, 2025-12-03 R. DER Control
OCPP 2.1 Edition 2 - © Open Charge Alliance 2025 540/803 Part 2 - Specification