In most cases the DER configuration will be static, since grid codes are not changed often, but it is possible for the CSO to
dynamically update the DER settings of charging stations.
2.3. DER Control for AC bidirectional power transfer
In case of an AC charging station, the AC-DC inverter is part of the EV. As such it cannot be controlled directly via OCPP, because
there is no OCPP connection with the EV. The charging station has its own communication protocol with the EV. This document
assumes ISO 15118-20 as the communication protocol with the EV, but other protocols that support bidirectional charging, such as
CHAdeMO, can also be used, although the number of parameters that can be exchanged may differ.
The current version of ISO 15118-20 for AC (ProtocolNamespace = "urn:iso:std:iso:15118:-20:AC", VersionNumberMajor = 1)
available in 2023 does not provide support to configure the EV inverter with specific grid code settings, such as fault ride-through
and frequency droop curves, or reactive power capabilities. However, the ChargeLoop message of ISO 15118-20, that is exchanged
between charging station and EV several times a second, provides a lot of control over the charging. A charging station can use this
to dynamically control the charging and discharging such that it satisfies the grid code requirements.
For example, a frequency droop curve can be implemented by the charging station. Based on the grid frequency this curve will tell
how much discharging needs to be reduced or increased to help stabilize the grid frequency. The charging station adjusts the
charging or discharging rate of the EV via the ChargeLoop messages. There is some latency involved, of course, and reaction speed
highly depends on how frequent the EV sends its ChargeLoop messages. It will not suffice for settings that require a reaction time
in the order of milliseconds.
Amendment 1 of ISO 15118-20 provides a new service "AC_BPT_DER" with capabilities to enforce grid code compliance. Two types
of architectures are supported. An architecture in which the AC inverter in the EV is fully responsible for grid code compliance, and
an architecture in which the responsibility is split between EV and Charging Station.
2.4. ISO 15118 V2G-AC inverter architecture
In the V2G-AC inverter architecture, the advanced smart inverter in the EV is fully responsible for grid code compliance. When the
EV connects to the Charging Station, the latter will require a list of settings and supported DER controls that the EV must support
when accepting the AC_BPT_DER service. Charging Station will then send all grid code settings to the EV. The grid code settings
will have been sent to the Charging Station by the CSMS at some earlier point in time.
Figure 198. V2G-AC inverter archicture (ISO 15118-20)
2.5. ISO 15118 V2G-Split inverter architecture
In the V2G-Split architecture the responsibility for grid code compliance is split between EV and Charging Station.
When the EV connects to the Charging Station, the latter will require a list of minimally required settings and DER controls that the
EV must support. (This could even be an empty list.) Any DER controls that are required to comply to the grid code, but are not
supported by the EV will be executed by the EVSE of the Charging Station. One of the possible configurations is the one represented
in the diagram, where the EVSE ensures grid code compliance by measuring frequency and voltage deviations and calculating the
appropriate active and/or reactive power target values. The EV will receive the targets requested by the EVSE and consume or inject
active/reactive power. Both the EV and EVSE or just one shall also have interface protection means, which will be triggered
according to the trip functions. The EV may perform reactive and active power functions independently, or receive target requests
by the EVSE to consume or inject active/reactive power.
Edition 2, 2025-12-03 R. DER Control
OCPP 2.1 Edition 2 - © Open Charge Alliance 2025 542/803 Part 2 - Specification