Figure 199. V2G-Split inverter architecture (ISO 15118-20)
NOTE
From an OCPP point of view the inverter architecture, V2G-AC or V2G-Split, is irrelevant. CSMS sends the DER
controls to the Charging Station and does not need to know if the inverter is part of a DC Charging Station or AC
Charging Station with V2G-AC or V2G-Split architecture.
2.6. DER nameplate information
The DER nameplate information is information about capabilities and make and model of the inverter. For a DC charging station
this information can be provided by the CSO, who is aware of the station’s inverter capabilities. A CSO will either have this
information based on the make and model of the charging station, or the CSO is able to request the data from the charging station
by retrieving data about the AcDcConverter component of the EVSE in the charging station.
When the ISO 15118-20 communication is established using the AC_BPT_DER service, the vehicle will send its inverter capabilities,
including the manufacturer, model and version.
The capabilities of the inverter of the EVSE do not have to match the capabilities of the vehicle. The combined capabilities of
station and vehicle can only be given once the ISO 15118-20 ChargeParameterDiscovery process has completed. The results are
sent to CSMS via the OCPP NotifyEVChargingNeedsRequest message.
2.7. DER controls
The behavior of a DER (i.e. charging station or EV inverter) can be controlled by so-called DER controls. These are settings with
parameters to control active or reactive power, other settings, such as a specific power factor and ramp rates, and curves that
control behavior.
NOTE
ISO 15118-20 sends a complete set of DER controls to the EV each time it requests to use the AC_BPT_DER
service for AC bidirectional charging. This is because the EV is seen as a "new" DER resource that needs to be
fully configured. Standards like IEEE 2030.5 and IEC 61850, however, allow a utility to submit or update individual
controls. A utility might, for example, for the set of voltage trip curves that are installed on a DER, only update the
overvoltage trip curve. This approach makes sense for static DER resources, such as solar panels and DC
charging stations. OCPP messages are designed for controlling individual DER controls, because that is what
utilities or aggregators are likely to provide. A charging station will group the set of active DER controls into a
single message with voltage trip curves, frequency trip curves, reactive power support, etc. for sending to the EV.
Power settings
If a utility wishes to state (reactive) power setpoints or limits, this can be achieved via the CSO. Setting of active or reactive power
setpoints via CSMS is already supported by OCPP charging profiles. No new messages towards charging station are needed to
support this. Instead, a power setpoint or limit will be translated to an OCPP charging profile towards the stations.
Parameter settings
Other control settings, such as a fixed power factor, frequency droop, are transferred to the charging station via a
SetDERControlRequest message. The settings can be scheduled with a start time and duration. The currently active settings can be
retrieved with a GetDERControlRequest message.
Edition 2, 2025-12-03 R. DER Control
OCPP 2.1 Edition 2 - © Open Charge Alliance 2025 543/803 Part 2 - Specification