Figure 204. Example power factor curve, cos phi(P), used in Germany (VDE-AR-N 4105)
2.8. DER alarms
When a charging station starts to deviate from normal behavior, because it is forced to follow a DER curve or setting, then this will
be signalled to CSMS, such that the CSO is aware of this situation. Similarly, the charging station will send a signal when this event
has ended.
This is supported via the OCPP NotifyDERAlarmRequest message, which tells which DER control is taking over and what caused it.
The message is sent again with an "ended" flag to signal when the event has ended.
2.9. Prioritizing of controls
There are two mechanisms that affect the priority of DER controls. Controls can be DER curves or parameter settings in this
context. Firstly, there are default DER controls and scheduled ones. Secondly, there are different priorities as defined by the priority
field of the setting. A priority = 0 is the highest priority.
Default controls
Default DER controls are active when there is no scheduled DER control of the same type that is active at that point in time. "Type"
in this context means a DER control parameter, such as FreqDroop or a DER curve, such as FreqWatt or HFMustTrip. There
may be scheduled DER controls installed, but they will not become active until their specified startTime, and stop being active after
duration seconds after startTime, after which the system falls back to the default DER control (if any).
Priority
Only one control of a specific type a can be active at any one time. If more than one control of the same type is installed, then the
one with the highest priority (i.e. the lowest priority value!) will prevail. This applies to default and scheduled DER controls: the
default control with the lowest priority value will be used as default control, and the scheduled control with the lowest priority value
will be applied at its start time.
The prioritization of a scheduled DER controls takes place at the moment when the message is received. When a DER control is
received with a lower priority value than other controls of the same type, then these other controls become superseded
immediately, as long as they have not yet started. This happens even when the new control has a much later start time than the
existing ones. If a to-be-superseded control has already started (i.e. it is past startTime), then it will remain active and only become
superseded at the startTime of the superseding control. A superseded control will no longer be used, but will remain to exist in the
charging station until its duration expires.
This method of scheduling has deliberately been made to match the process for prioritization that is described in [RefCSIP]. The
following examples from [RefCSIP] illustrate the behavior by describing two very similar overlapping event scenarios that only differ
in when the charging station receives the controls. In the first case, the charging station receives both DER controls prior to the
start of either. In this case, the charging station does not execute the lower priority (superseded) control at all. It only executes the
higher priority control as shown in the figure below.
Edition 2, 2025-12-03 R. DER Control
OCPP 2.1 Edition 2 - © Open Charge Alliance 2025 546/803 Part 2 - Specification