Chapter 1. Introduction
Battery swapping is the process whereby an EV driver exchanges the near empty EV battery for a charged EV battery. The returned
battery is placed in a dock and then charged again. Once it reaches a certain level of state of charge it becomes eligible to be
swapped again for an empty battery.
For light EVs, such as e-scooters, the swapping is a manual process performed by the EV driver. For regular EVs the swapping is an
automated process that is initiated by the EV driver, but performed by a machine.
NOTE Depending on the type of EVs the battery swap can consist of a single battery or a set of batteries.
Although this section assumes that an EV driver returns a battery (or set of batteries) before receiving a new battery (or set of
batteries), the reverse order is also supported by the described mechanism.
A battery swap action cannot be recorded by OCPP TransactionEvent messages. The action of swapping a battery is not
considered a charging transaction; instead, it is a service for which the price can depend, for example, on the difference between
the state of charge of the old and new batteries or be based on a monthly fee. OCPP 2.1 introduces a new message to record the
swapping of batteries. The actual charging of batteries in the dock can still be tracked by CSMS via TransactionEvent messages.
A battery swap station has multiple slots that to hold batteries. In OCPP, a battery swap station is treated as a charging station.
Similar to charging stations, where one EVSE charges one EV, OCPP assumes that, in a battery swap station, conceptually one
EVSE powers one battery slot. (In practice, it may be possible that a single power supply unit is used to charge batteries in multiple
slots one after the other). Different types of battery slots can be represented by specifying a different connector type for an EVSE in
the Device Model variable ConnectorType. (See Example representation of a battery swap station in device model).
Edition 2, 2025-12-03 S. Battery Swapping
OCPP 2.1 Edition 2 - © Open Charge Alliance 2025 568/803 Part 2 - Specification