14 of 95
ELM327
ELM327DSK Elm Electronics – Circuits for the Hobbyist
www.elmelectronics.com
AT Command Descriptions (continued)
BRT  hh [ set Baud Rate Timeout to hh ]
This command allows the timeout used for the
Baud Rate handshake (ie. AT BRD) to be varied. The
time delay is given by hh x 5.0 msec, where hh is a
hexadecimal value. The default value for this setting is
0F, providing 75 msec. Note that a value of 00 does
not result in 0 msec -  it provides the maximum time of
256 x 5.0 msec, or 1.28 seconds.
CAF0 and CAF1 [ CAN Auto Formatting off or on ]
These commands determine whether the ELM327
assists you with the formatting of the CAN data that is
sent and received. With CAN Automatic Formatting
enabled (CAF1), the formatting (PCI) bytes will be
automatically generated for you when sending, and will
be removed when receiving. This means that you can
continue to issue OBD requests (01 00, etc.) as usual,
without regard to the extra bytes that CAN diagnostics
systems require. Also, with formatting on, any extra
(unused) data bytes that are received in the frame will
be removed, and any messages with invalid PCI bytes
will be ignored. (When monitoring, however, messages
with invalid PCI bytes are all shown, with a ‘<DATA
ERROR’ message beside them).
Multi-frame responses may be returned by the
vehicle with ISO 15765 and SAE J1939. To make
these more readable, the Auto Formatting mode will
extract the total data length and print it on one line,
then show each line of data with the segment number
followed by a colon (‘:’), and then the data bytes.
You may also see the characters 'FC:' on a line (if
you are experimenting). This identifies a Flow Control
message that has been sent as part of the multi-line
message signalling. Flow Control messages are
automatically generated by the ELM327 in response to
a ‘First Frame’ reply, as long as the CFC setting is on
(it does not matter if auto formatting is on or not).
Another type of message – the RTR (or ‘Remote
Transfer Request’) – will be automatically hidden for
you when in the CAF1 mode, since they contain no
data. When auto formatting is off (CAF0), you will see
the characters 'RTR' printed when a remote transfer
request frame has been received.
Turning the CAN Automatic Formatting off (CAF0),
will cause the ELM327 to print all of the data bytes as
received. No bytes will be hidden from you, and none
will be inserted for you. Similarly, when sending data
with formatting off, you must provide all of the required
data bytes exactly as they are to be sent – the
ELM327 will not add a PCI byte for you (but it will add
some trailing 'padding' bytes to ensure that the
required eight data bytes are sent). This allows the
ELM327 to be used with protocols that have special
formatting requirements.
Note that turning the display of headers on (with
AT H1) will override some of the CAF1 formatting of
the received data, so that the received bytes will
appear much like in the CAF0 mode (ie. as received).
It is only the printing of the received data that will be
affected when both CAF1 and H1 modes are enabled,
though; when sending data, the PCI byte will still be
created for you and padding bytes will still be added.
Auto Formatting on (CAF1) is the default setting.
CEA [ turn off the CAN Extended Address ]
The CEA command is used to turn off the special
features that are set with the CEA hh command.
CEA hh [ set the CAN Extended Address to hh ]
Some (non-OBD) CAN protocols extend the
addressing fields by using the first of the eight data
bytes as a target (receiver) address. This command
allows the ELM327 to interact with those protocols.
Sending the CEA hh command causes the
ELM327 to insert the hh value as the first data byte of
all CAN messages that you send. It also adds one
more filtering step to received messages, only passing
ones that have the Tester Address in the first byte
position (in addition to requiring that ID bits match the
patterns set by AT CF and CM, or CRA). The AT CEA
hh command can be sent at any time, and changes
are effective immediately, allowing for changes of the
address ‘on-the-fly’. There is a more lengthy
discussion of extended addressing in the ‘Using CAN
Extended Addresses’ section on page 62.
The CEA mode of operation is off by default, and
is enabled by sending the CEA command with a target
address. Once it is on, it can be turned off by sending
AT CEA (with no address), or by restoring the chip
defaults with AT D, AT Z, etc. Note that the CEA
setting has no effect when J1939 formatting is on.
CER hh [ set the CAN Extended Rx address to hh ]
By default, the ELM327 receives responses to
CAN extended addressing requests that have the
‘tester address’ in the first data byte position. The CER
command allows you to choose a different receive
address.