16 of 95
ELM327
ELM327DSK Elm Electronics – Circuits for the Hobbyist
www.elmelectronics.com
only want to see information from 7E8, simply send AT
CRA 7E8, and the ELM327 will make the necessary
adjustments to both the mask and the filter for you.
If you wish to allow the reception of a range of
values, you can use the letter X to signify a ‘don’t care’
condition. That is, AT CRA 7EX would allow all IDs
that start with 7E to pass (7E0, 7E1, etc.). For a more
specific range of IDs, you may need to assign a mask
and filter.
To reverse the changes made by the CRA
command, simply send AT CRA or AT AR.
CRA hhhhhhhh [set the  CAN Rx Addr to hhhhhhhh]
This command is identical to the previous one,
except that it is used with 29 bit CAN IDs. Sending
either AT CRA or AT AR will also reverse any changes
made by this command.
CS [ show the CAN Status counts ]
The CAN protocol requires that statistics be kept
regarding the number of transmit and receive errors
detected. If there should be a significant number of
errors (due to a hardware or software problem), the
device will go off-line in order to not affect other data
on the bus. The AT CS command lets you see both
the transmitter (Tx) and the receiver (Rx) error counts,
in hexadecimal. If the transmitter should be off (count
>FF), you will see ‘OFF’ rather than a specific count.
Beginning with firmware v2.2, the CS response will
also show the frequency of the signal at the CAN
input, at that time. A typical response might look like:
>AT CS
T:00 R:00 F:250
The same module that determines the frequency
during protocol searches is used, and is fairly basic in
operation. It provides frequency in only certain ranges,
so possible responses with the current version are
limited to 500, 250, <250, and 0 (no signal).
CSM0 and CSM1 [ CAN Silent Monitoring off or on ]
The ELM327 was designed to be completely silent
while monitoring a CAN bus. Because of this, it is able
to report exactly what it sees, without colouring the
information in any way. Occasionally (when bench
testing, or when connecting to a dedicated CAN port),
it may be preferred that the ELM327 does not operate
silently (ie generates ACK bits, etc.), and this is what
the CSM command is for. CSM1 turns it on, CSM0
turns it off, and the default value is determined by
PP 21. Be careful when experimenting with this. If you
should choose the wrong baud rate then monitor the
CAN bus with the silent monitoring off, you will disturb
the flow of data. Always keep the silent monitoring on
until you are certain that you have chosen the correct
baud rate.
CTM1 [ set the Timer Multiplier to 1 ]
This command causes all timeouts set by AT ST
to be multiplied by a factor of 1. Note that this currently
only affects the CAN protocols (6 to C). CTM1 is the
default setting.
CTM5 [ set the Timer Multiplier to 5 ]
This command causes all timeouts set by AT ST
to be multiplied by a factor of 5. Note that this currently
only affects the CAN protocols (6 to C).
This command was originally added (as JTM5) to
assist with the retrieving of some J1939 messages.
We have since had several requests to allow it to
affect all CAN modes, and so have modified the JTM5
code and added the new CTM1/CTM5 commands. If
using CTM5, we caution that the Adaptive Timing code
does not monitor changes in the setting, so we advise
turning it off (with AT AT0).
By default, this multiplier is off.
CV dddd [ Calibrate the Voltage to dd.dd volts ]
The voltage reading that the ELM327 shows for an
AT RV request can be calibrated with this command.
The argument (‘dddd’) must always be provided as 4
digits, with no decimal point (it assumes that the
decimal place is between the second and the third
digits).
To use this feature, simply use an accurate meter
to read the actual input voltage, then use the CV
command to change the internal calibration (scaling)
factor. For example, if the ELM327 shows the voltage
as 12.2V while you measure 11.99 volts, then send
AT CV 1199 and the ELM327 will recalibrate itself for
that voltage (it will actually read 12.0V due to digit
roundoff). See page 30 for some more information on
how to read voltages and perform the calibration.
CV 0000 [ restore the factory Calibration Value ]
If you are experimenting with the CV dddd
AT Command Descriptions (continued)