17 of 95
ELM327
ELM327DSK Elm Electronics – Circuits for the Hobbyist
www.elmelectronics.com
command but do not have an accurate voltmeter as a
reference, you may soon get into trouble. If this
happens, you can always send AT CV 0000 to restore
the ELM327 to the factory calibration value.
D [ set all to Defaults ]
This command is used to set the options to their
default (or factory) settings, as when power is first
applied. The last stored protocol will be retrieved from
memory, and will become the current setting (possibly
closing other protocols that are active). Any settings
that the user had made for custom headers, filters, or
masks will be restored to their default values, and all
timer settings will also be restored to their defaults.
D0 and D1 [ display of DLC off or on ]
Standard CAN (ISO 15765-4) OBD requires that
all messages have 8 data bytes, so displaying the
number of data bytes (the DLC) is not normally very
useful. When experimenting with other protocols,
however, it may be useful to be able to see what the
data lengths are. The D0 and D1 commands control
the display of the DLC digit (the headers must also be
on in order to see this digit). When displayed, the
single DLC digit will appear between the ID (header)
bytes and the data bytes. The default setting is
determined by PP 29.
DM1 [ monitor for DM1s ]
The SAE J1939 Protocol broadcasts trouble codes
periodically, by way of Diagnostic Mode 1 (DM1)
messages. This command sets the ELM327 to
continually monitor for this type of message for you,
following multi-segment transport protocols as
required. Note that a combination of masks and filters
could be set to provide a similar output, but they would
not allow multiline messages to be detected. The DM1
command adds the extra logic that is needed for
multiline messages.
This command is only available when a CAN
Protocol (A, B, or C) has been selected for J1939
formatting. It returns an error if attempted under any
other conditions.
DP [ Describe the current Protocol ]
The ELM327 automatically detects a vehicle’s
OBD protocol, but does not normally report what it is.
The DP command is a convenient means of asking
what protocol the IC is currently set to (even if it has
not yet ‘connected’ to the vehicle).
If a protocol is chosen and the automatic option is
also selected, AT DP will show the word 'AUTO' before
the protocol description. Note that the description
shows the actual protocol names, not the numbers
used by the protocol setting commands.
DPN [ Describe the Protocol by Number ]
This command is similar to the DP command, but
it returns a number which represents the current
protocol. If the automatic search function is also
enabled, the number will be preceded with the letter
‘A’. The number is the same one that is used with the
set protocol and test protocol commands.
E0 and E1 [ Echo off or on ]
These commands control whether or not the
characters received on the RS232 port are echoed
(retransmitted) back to the host computer. Character
echo can be used to confirm that the characters sent
to the ELM327 were received correctly. The default is
E1 (or echo on).
FC SD [1-5 bytes] [ Flow Control Set Data to… ]
The data bytes that are sent in a CAN Flow
Control message may be defined with this command.
One to five data bytes may be specified, with the
remainder of the data bytes in the message being
automatically set to the default CAN filler byte, if
required by the protocol. Data provided with this
command is only used when Flow Control modes 1 or
2 have been enabled.
FC SH hhh [ Flow Control Set Header to… ]
The header (or more properly ‘CAN ID’) bytes
used for CAN Flow Control messages can be set using
this command. Only the right-most 11 bits of those
provided will be used -  the most significant bit is
always removed. This command only affects Flow
Control mode 1.
FC SH hhhhhhhh [ Flow Control Set Header to… ]
This command is used to set the header (or ‘CAN
ID’) bits for Flow Control responses with 29 bit CAN ID
systems. Since the 8 nibbles define 32 bits, only the
AT Command Descriptions (continued)