20 of 95
ELM327
ELM327DSK Elm Electronics – Circuits for the Hobbyist
www.elmelectronics.com
AT Command Descriptions (continued)
‘left-to-right’ order, which many of us would expect. For
example, to send a request for the engine temperature
(PGN 00FEEE), the data bytes are actually sent in the
reverse order (ie EE FE 00), and the ELM327 would
normally expect you to provide the data in that order
for passing on to the vehicle.
When experimenting, this constant need for byte
reversals can be quite confusing, so we have defined
an ELM format that reverses the bytes for you. When
the J1939 ELM (JE) format is enabled, and you have a
J1939 protocol selected, and you provide three data
bytes to the ELM327, it will reverse the order for you
before sending them to the ECU. To request the
engine temperature PGN, you would send 00 FE EE
(and not EE FE 00). The ‘JE’ type of automatic
formatting is enabled by default.
JHF0 and JHF1 [ J1939 Header Formatting off or on ]
When printing responses, the ELM327 normally
formats the J1939 ID (ie Header) bits in such a way as
to isolate the priority bits and group all the PGN
information, while keeping the source address byte
separate. If you prefer to see the ID information as four
separate bytes (which a lot of the J1939 software
seems to do), then simply turn off the formatting with
JHF0. The CAF0 command has the same effect (and
overrides the JHF setting), but also affects other
formatting. The default setting is JHF1.
JS [ enables the J1939 SAE data format ]
The AT JS command disables the automatic byte
reordering that the JE command performs for you. If
you wish to send data bytes to the J1939 vehicle
without any manipulation of the byte order (ie in the
order specified by the SAE documents), then select JS
formatting.
As an example, when sending a request for
engine temperature (PGN 00FEEE) with the data
format set to JS, you must present the bytes to the
ELM327 as EE FE 00 (this is also known as little-
endian byte ordering).
The JS type of data formatting is off by default.
JTM1 [ set the J1939 Timer Multiplier to 1 ]
This command is used to set the AT ST time
multiplier to x1 for the SAE J1939 protocol. As of
firmware v2.1, this command now simply calls the
CTM1 command.
JTM5 [ set the J1939 Timer Multiplier to 5 ]
This used to set the AT ST time multiplier to x5, for
the SAE J1939 protocol. As of firmware v2.1, this
command now simply calls the CTM5 command.
KW [ display the Key Words ]
When the ISO 9141-2 and ISO 14230-4 protocols
are initialized, two special bytes (key words) are
passed to the ELM327 (the values are used internally
to determine whether a particular protocol variation
can be supported by the ELM327). If you wish to see
what the value of these bytes were, simply send the
AT KW command.
KW0 and KW1 [ Key Word checks off or on ]
The ELM327 looks for specific bytes (called key
words) to be sent to it during the ISO 9141-2 and
ISO14230-4 initiation sequences. If the bytes are not
found, the initiation is said to have failed (you might
see ‘UNABLE TO CONNECT’ or perhaps ‘BUS INIT:
...ERROR’). This might occur if you are trying to
connect to a non-OBD compliant ECU, or perhaps to
an older one.
If you wish to experiment with non-standard
systems, you may have to tell the ELM327 to perform
the initiation sequence, but ignore the contents of the
bytes that are sent and received. To do this, send:
>AT KW0
After turning keyword checking off, the ELM327
will still require the two key word bytes in the
response, but will not look at the actual values of the
bytes. It will also send an acknowledgement to the
ECU, and will wait for the final response from it (but
will not stop and report an error if none is received).
This may allow you to make a connection in an
otherwise ‘impossible’ situation. Normal behaviour can
be returned with AT KW1, which is the default setting.
L0 and L1 [ Linefeeds off or on ]
This option controls the sending of linefeed
characters after each carriage return character. For
AT L1, linefeeds will be generated after every carriage
return character, and for AT L0, they will be off. Users
will generally wish to have this option on if using a
terminal program, but off if using a custom computer
interface (as the extra characters transmitted will only
serve to slow the communications down). The default