21 of 95
ELM327
ELM327DSK Elm Electronics – Circuits for the Hobbyist
www.elmelectronics.com
AT Command Descriptions (continued)
setting is determined by the voltage at pin 7 during
power on (or reset). If the level is high, then linefeeds
are on by default; otherwise they will be off.
LP [ go to the Low Power mode ]
This command causes the ELM327 to shut off all
but ‘essential services’ in order to reduce the power
consumption to a minimum. The ELM327 will respond
with an ‘OK’ (but no carriage return) and then, one
second later, will change the state of the PwrCtrl
output (pin 16) and will enter the low power (standby)
mode. The IC can be brought back to normal operation
through a character received at the RS232 input or a
rising edge at the IgnMon (pin 15) input, in addition to
the usual methods of resetting the IC (power off then
on, a low on pin 1, or a brownout). See the Power
Control section (page 65) for more information.
M0 and M1 [ Memory off or on ]
The ELM327 has internal ‘non-volatile’ memory
that is capable of remembering the last protocol used,
even after the power is turned off. This can be
convenient if the IC is often used for one particular
protocol, as that will be the first one attempted when
next powered on. To enable this memory function, it is
necessary to either use an AT command to select the
M1 option, or to have chosen ‘memory on’ as the
default power on mode (by connecting pin 5 of the
ELM327 to a high logic level).
When the memory function is enabled, each time
that the ELM327 finds a valid OBD protocol, that
protocol will be memorized (stored) and will become
the new default. If the memory function is not enabled,
protocols found during a session will not be
memorized, and the ELM327 will always start at power
up using the same (last saved) protocol.
If the ELM327 is to be used in an environment
where the protocol is constantly changing, it would
likely be best to turn the memory function off, and
issue an AT SP 0 command once. The SP 0 command
tells the ELM327 to start in an 'Automatic' protocol
search mode, which is the most useful for an unknown
environment. ICs come from the factory set to this
mode. If, however, you have only one vehicle that you
regularly connect to, storing that vehicle’s protocol as
the default would make the most sense.
The default setting for the memory function is
determined by the voltage level at pin 5 during power
up (or system reset). If it is connected to a high level
(VDD), then the memory function will be on by default.
If pin 5 is connected to a low level, the memory saving
will be off by default.
MA [ Monitor All messages ]
This command places the ELM327 into a bus
monitoring mode, in which it continually monitors for
(and displays) all messages that it sees on the OBD
bus. It is a quiet monitor, not sending In Frame
Responses for J1850 systems, Acknowledges for CAN
systems (unless you turn silent mode off with CSM0),
or Wakeup (‘keep-alive’) messages for the ISO 9141
and ISO 14230 protocols. Monitoring will continue until
you stop it with activity on the RS232 input, or the RTS
pin.
To stop monitoring, simply send any single
character to the ELM327, then wait for it to respond
with a prompt character (‘>’), or a low level output on
the Busy pin. (Setting the RTS input to a low level will
interrupt the device as well.) Waiting for the prompt is
necessary as the response time varies depending on
what the IC was doing when it was interrupted. If for
instance it was in the middle of printing a line, it will
first complete that line and then print ‘STOPPED’,
before returning to the command state and sending a
prompt character. If it were simply waiting for input, it
would return much quicker. Note that the character
which stops the monitoring will always be discarded,
and will not affect subsequent commands.
If this command is used with CAN protocols, and if
the CAN filter and/or mask were previously set (with
CF, CM or CRA), then the MA command will be
affected by those settings. For example, if the receive
address had been set previously with CRA 4B0, then
the AT MA command would only be able to ‘see’
messages with an ID of 4B0. This may not be what is
desired - you may want to reset the masks and filters
(with AT AR or AT CRA) first.
All of the monitoring commands (MA, MR and MT)
operate by closing the current protocol (an AT PC is
executed internally), before configuring the IC for
monitoring the data. When the next OBD command is
to be transmitted, the protocol will again be initialized,
and you may see messages stating this.
‘SEARCHING...’ may also be seen, depending on
what changes were made while monitoring.
MP hhhh [ Monitor for PGN hhhh ]
The AT MA, MR and MT commands are quite