22 of 95
ELM327
ELM327DSK Elm Electronics – Circuits for the Hobbyist
www.elmelectronics.com
AT Command Descriptions (continued)
useful for when you wish to monitor for a specific byte
in the header of a typical OBD message. For the SAE
J1939 Protocol, however, it is often desirable to
monitor for the multi-byte Parameter Group Numbers
(or PGNs), which can appear in either the header, or
the data bytes. The MP command is a special J1939
only command that is used to look for responses to a
particular PGN request.
Note that this MP command provides no means to
set the first two digits of the requested PGN, and they
are always assumed to be 00. For example, the DM2
PGN has an assigned  value of 00FECB (see SAE
J1939-73). To monitor for DM2 messages, you would
issue AT MP FECB, eliminating the 00, since the
MP hhhh command always assumes that the PGN is
preceded by two zeros.
This command is only available when a CAN
Protocol (A, B, or C) has been selected for SAE J1939
formatting. It returns an error if attempted under any
other conditions. Note also that this version of the
ELM327 only displays responses that match the
criteria, not the requests that are asking for the PGN
information.
MP hhhh n [ Monitor for PGN, get n messages ]
This is very similar to the above command, but
adds the ability to set the number of messages that
should be fetched before the ELM327 automatically
stops monitoring and prints a prompt character. The
value ‘n’ may be any single hex digit.
MP hhhhhh [ Monitor for PGN hhhhhh ]
This command is very similar to the MP hhhh
command, but it extends the number of bytes provided
by one, so that there is complete control over the PGN
definition (it does not make the assumption that the
Data Page bit is 0, as the MP hhhh command does).
This allows for future expansion, should additional
PGNs be defined with the Data Page bit set. Note that
only the Data Page bit is relevant in the extra byte -
the other bits are ignored.
MP hhhhhh n [ Monitor for PGN, get n messages ]
This is very similar to the previous command, but it
adds the ability to set the number of messages that
should be fetched before the ELM327 automatically
stops monitoring and prints a prompt character. The
value ‘n’ may be any single hex digit.
MR hh [ Monitor for Receiver hh ]
This command is very similar to the AT MA
command except that it will only display messages that
were sent to the hex address given by hh. These are
messages which are found to have the value hh in the
second byte of a traditional three byte OBD header, in
bits 8 to 15 of a 29 bit CAN ID, or in bits 8 to 10 of an
11 bit CAN ID. Any single RS232 character aborts the
monitoring, as with the MA command.
Note that if this command is used with CAN
protocols, and if the CAN filter and/or mask were
previously set (with CF, CM or CRA), then the MR
command will over-write the previous values  for these
bits only - the others will remain unchanged. As an
example, if the receive address has been set with
CRA 4B0, and then you send MR 02, the 02 will
replace the 4, and the CAN masks/filters will only allow
IDs that are equal to 2B0. This is often not what is
desired - you may want to reset the masks and filters
(with AT AR) first.
As with the AT MA command, this command
begins by performing an internal Protocol Close.
Subsequent OBD requests may show ‘SEARCHING’
or ‘BUS INIT’, etc. messages when the protocol is
reactivated.
MT hh [ Monitor for Transmitter hh ]
This command is also very similar to the AT MA
command, except that it will only display messages
that were sent by the transmitter with the hex address
given by hh. These are messages which are found to
have that value in the third byte of a traditional three
byte OBD header, or in bits 0 to 7 for CAN IDs. As with
the MA and MR monitoring modes, any RS232 activity
(single character) aborts the monitoring.
Note that if this command is used with CAN
protocols, and if the CAN filter and/or mask were
previously set (with CF, CM or CRA), then the MT
command will over-write the previous values for these
bits only - the others will remain unchanged. As an
example, if the receive address has been set with
CRA 4B0, and then you send MT 20, the 20 will
replace the B0, and the CAN masks/filters will only
allow IDs that are equal to 420. This is often not what
is desired - you may want to reset the masks and
filters (with AT AR) first.
As with the AT MA command, this command
begins by performing an internal Protocol Close.
Subsequent OBD requests may show ‘SEARCHING’