23 of 95
ELM327
ELM327DSK Elm Electronics – Circuits for the Hobbyist
www.elmelectronics.com
AT Command Descriptions (continued)
or ‘BUS INIT’, etc. messages when the protocol is
reactivated.
NL [ Normal Length messages ]
Setting the NL mode on forces all sends and
receives to be limited to the standard seven data bytes
in length, similar to the other ELM32x OBD ICs. To
allow longer messages, use the AL command.
The ELM327 does not require a change to AL to
allow longer message lengths for the KWP protocols to
be received. You can simply leave the IC set to the
default setting of NL, and all of the received bytes will
be shown.
PB xx yy [ set Protocol B parameters ]
This command allows you to change the protocol
B (USER1) options and baud rate without having to
change the associated Programmable Parameters.
This allows for easier protocol changes while testing.
To use this feature, simply set xx to the value for
PP 2C, and yy to the value for PP 2D, and issue the
command. The next time that the protocol is initialized
it will use these values. For example, to set protocol B
for use with 500kbps J1939, simply use the command:
>AT PB 42 01
As another example, assume that you wish to
monitor a system that uses 11 bit CAN at 33.3 kbps. If
you do not want any special formatting, this means a
value of 11000000 or C0 hex for PP 2C, and 15
decimal or 0F hex for PP 2D. Simply send these
values to the ELM327 with the command:
>AT PB C0 0F
then start monitoring with:
>AT MA
if you see CAN ERRORs, and realize that you wanted
an 83.3 kbps baud rate, then close the protocol, and
send the new values:
>AT PC
OK
>AT PB C0 06
OK
>AT MA
Values passed in this way do not affect any that
are stored as the 2C and 2D Programmable
Parameters, and are lost if the ELM327 is reset. If you
want to make your settings persist over power cycles,
then you may wish to store them in the Programmable
Parameter for CAN protocols USER1 or USER2.
PC [ Protocol Close ]
There may be occasions where it is desirable to
stop (deactivate) a protocol. Perhaps you are not using
the automatic protocol finding, and wish to manually
activate and deactivate protocols. Perhaps you wish to
stop the sending of idle (wakeup) messages, or have
another reason. The PC command is used in these
cases to force a protocol to close.
PP hh OFF [ turn Prog. Parameter hh OFF ]
This command disables Programmable Parameter
number hh. Any value assigned using the PP hh SV
command will no longer be used, and the factory
default setting will once again be in effect. The actual
time when the new value for this parameter becomes
effective is determined by its type. Refer to the
Programmable Parameters section (page 70) for more
information on the types.
Note that ‘PP FF OFF’ is a special command that
disables all of the Programmable Parameters, as if you
had entered PP OFF for every possible one.
It is possible to alter some of the Programmable
Parameters so that it may be difficult, or even
impossible, to communicate with the ELM327. If this
occurs, there is a hardware means of resetting all of
the Programmable Parameters at once. Connect a
jumper from circuit common to pin 28, holding it there
while powering up the ELM327 circuit. Hold it in
position until you see the RS232 Receive LED begin to
flash (which indicates that all of the PPs have been
turned off). At this point, remove the jumper to allow
the IC to perform a normal startup. Note that a reset of
the PPs occurs quite quickly – if you are holding the
jumper on for more than a few seconds and do not see
the RS232 receive light flashing, remove the jumper
and try again, as there may be a problem with your
connection.
PP hh ON [ turn Programmable Parameter hh ON ]
This command enables Programmable Parameter
number hh. Once enabled, any value assigned using