24 of 95
ELM327
ELM327DSK Elm Electronics – Circuits for the Hobbyist
www.elmelectronics.com
AT Command Descriptions (continued)
the PP hh SV command will be used where the factory
default value was before. (All of the programmable
parameter values are set to their default values at the
factory, so enabling a programmable parameter before
assigning a value to it will not cause problems.) The
actual time when the value for this parameter becomes
effective is determined by its type. Refer to the
Programmable Parameters section (page 70) for more
information on the types.
Note that ‘PP FF ON’ is a special command that
enables all of the Programmable Parameters at the
same time.
PP hh SV yy [ Prog. Param. hh: Set the Value to yy ]
A value is assigned to a Programmable Parameter
using this command. The system will not be able to
use this new value until the Programmable Parameter
has been enabled, with PP hh ON.
PPS [ Programmable Parameter Summary ]
The complete range of current Programmable
Parameters are displayed with this command (even
those not yet implemented). Each is shown as a PP
number followed by a colon and the value that is
assigned to it. This is followed by a single digit – either
‘N’ or ‘F’ to show that it is ON (enabled), or OFF
(disabled), respectively. See the Programmable
Parameters section for a more complete discussion.
R0 and R1 [ Responses off or on ]
These commands control the ELM327’s automatic
receive (and display) of the messages returned by the
vehicle. If responses have been turned off, the IC will
not wait for a reply from the vehicle after sending a
request, and will return immediately to wait for the next
RS232 command (the ELM327 does not print anything
to say that the send was successful, but you will see a
message if it was not).
R0 may be useful to send commands blindly when
using the IC for a non-OBD network application, or
when simulating an ECU in a learning environment. It
is not recommended that this option used for normal
OBD communications, however, as the vehicle may
have difficulty if it is expecting an acknowledgement
and never receives one.
An R0 setting will always override any ‘number of
responses digit’ that is provided with an OBD request.
The default setting is R1, or responses on.
RA hh [ set the Receive Address to hh ]
Depending on the application, users may wish to
manually set the address to which the ELM327 will
respond. Issuing this command will turn off the AR
mode, and force the IC to only accept responses
addressed to hh. Use caution with this setting, as
depending on what you set it to, you may end up
accepting (ie. acknowledging with an IFR) a message
that was actually meant for another module. To turn off
the RA filtering, simply send AT AR.
This command is not very effective for use with the
CAN protocols, as it only monitors for one portion of
the ID bits, and that is not likely enough for most CAN
applications - the CRA command may be a better
choice. Also, this command has no effect on the
addresses used by the J1939 protocols, as the J1939
routines derive them from the header values, as
required by the SAE standard.
The RA command is exactly the same as the SR
command, and can be used interchangeably. Note that
CAN Extended Addressing does not use this value - it
uses the one set by the AT TA command.
RD [ Read the Data in the user memory ]
The byte value stored with the SD command is
retrieved with this command. There is only one
memory location, so no address is required.
RTR [ send an RTR message ]
This command causes a special ‘Remote Frame’
CAN message to be sent. This type of message has
no data bytes, and has its Remote Transmission
Request (RTR) bit set. The headers and filters will
remain as previously set (ie the ELM327 does not
make any assumptions as to what format a response
may have), so adjustments may need to be made to
the mask and filter. This command must be used with
an active CAN protocol (one that has been sending
and receiving messages), as it can not initiate a
protocol search. Note that the CAF1 setting normally
eliminates the display of all RTRs, so if you are
monitoring messages and want to see the RTRs, you
will have to turn off formatting, or else turn the headers
on.
The ELM327 treats an RTR just like any other
message sent, and will wait for a response from the
vehicle (unless AT R0 has been chosen).