25 of 95
ELM327
ELM327DSK Elm Electronics – Circuits for the Hobbyist
www.elmelectronics.com
RV [ Read the input Voltage ]
This initiates the reading of the voltage present at
pin 2, and the conversion of it to a decimal voltage. By
default, it is assumed that the input is connected to the
voltage to be measured through a 1:5.7 ratio voltage
divider (for example, 47K Ω and 10KΩ resistors in
series, with the 10KΩ connected from pin 2 to Vss)
and that the ELM327 supply is a nominal 5V. This will
allow for the measurement of input voltages up to
about 28V (the voltage at pin 2 must not exceed Vdd),
with an uncalibrated accuracy of typically about 2%.
See the ‘Reading the Battery Voltage’ section for
calibration information.
S0 and S1 [ printing of Spaces off or on ]
These commands control whether or not space
characters are inserted in the ECU response.
The ELM327 normally reports ECU responses as
a series of hex characters that are separated by space
characters (to improve readability), but messages can
be transferred much more quickly if every third byte
(the space) is removed. While this makes the message
less readable for humans, it can provide significant
improvements for computer processing of the data. By
default, spaces are on (S1), and space characters are
inserted in every response.
SD hh [ Save Data byte hh ]
The ELM327 is able to save one byte of
information for you in a special nonvolatile memory
location, which is able to retain its contents even if the
power is turned off. Simply provide the byte to be
stored, then retrieve it later with the read data (AT RD)
command. This location is ideal for storing user
preferences, unit ids, occurrence counts, or other
information.
SH xyz [ Set the Header to 00 0x yz ]
Entering CAN 11 bit ID words (headers) normally
requires that extra leading zeros be added (eg. AT SH
00 07 DF), but this command simplifies doing so. The
AT SH xyz command accepts a three digit argument,
takes only the right-most 11 bits from that, adds
leading zeros, and stores the result in the header
storage locations for you. As an example, AT SH 7DF
is a valid command, and is quite useful for working
with 11 bit CAN systems. It actually results in the
header bytes being stored internally as 00 07 DF.
SH xx yy zz [ Set the Header to xx yy zz ]
This command allows the user to manually control
the values that are sent as the three header bytes in a
message. These bytes are normally assigned values
for you (and are not required to be adjusted), but there
may be occasions when it is desirable to change them
(particularly if experimenting with physical addressing).
If experimenting, it is not necessary but may be better
to set the headers after a protocol is active. That way,
wakeup messages, etc. that get set on protocol
activation will use the default values.
The header bytes are defined with hexadecimal
digits - xx will be used for the first or priority/type byte,
yy will be used for the second or receiver/target byte,
and zz will be used for the third or transmitter/source
byte. These remain in effect until set again, or until
restored to their default values with the D, WS, or Z
commands.
If new values for header bytes are set before the
vehicle protocol has been determined, and if the
search is not set for fully automatic (ie other than
protocol 0), these new values will be used for the
header bytes of the first request to the vehicle. If that
first request should fail to obtain a response, and if the
automatic search is enabled, the ELM327 will then
continue to search for a protocol using default values
for the header bytes. Once a valid protocol is found,
the header bytes will revert to the values assigned with
the AT SH command.
This command is used to assign all header bytes,
whether they are for a J1850, ISO 9141, ISO 14230, or
a CAN system. The CAN systems will use these three
bytes to fill bits 0 to 23 of the ID word (for a 29 bit ID),
or will use only the rightmost 11 bits for an 11 bit CAN
ID (and any extra bits assigned will be ignored). The
additional 5 bits needed for a 29 bit system are set
with the AT CP command.
If assigning header values for the KWP protocols
(4 and 5), care must be taken when setting the first
header byte (xx) value. The ELM327 will always insert
the number of data bytes for you, but how it is done
depends on the values that you assign to this byte. If
the second digit of this first header byte is anything
other than 0 (zero), the ELM327 assumes that you
wish to have the length value inserted in that first byte
when sending. In other words, providing a length value
in the first header byte tells the ELM327 that you wish
to use a traditional 3 byte header, where the length is
stored in the first byte of the header.
If you provide a value of 0 for the second digit of
AT Command Descriptions (continued)