27 of 95
ELM327
ELM327DSK Elm Electronics – Circuits for the Hobbyist
www.elmelectronics.com
AT Command Descriptions (continued)
to actually write to the ELM327's EEPROM, however,
so we provided this command. It should not normally
be used when connecting to a vehicle.
SP Ah [ Set Protocol to Auto, h ]
This variation of the SP command allows you to
choose a starting (default) protocol, while still retaining
the ability to automatically search for a valid protocol
on a failure to connect. For example, if your vehicle is
ISO 9141-2, but you want to occasionally use the
ELM327 circuit on other vehicles, you might use the
AT SP A3 command, so that the first protocol tried will
then be yours (3), but it will also automatically search
for other protocols. Don't forget to disable the memory
function if doing this, or each new protocol detected
will become your new default.
SP Ah will save the protocol information even if
the memory option is off (but SP A0 and SP 0A do not-
if you must write 0 to the EEPROM, use command AT
SP 00). Note that the ‘A’ can come before or after the
h, so AT SP A3 can also be entered as AT SP 3A.
SR hh [Set the Receive address to hh ]
Depending on the application, users may wish to
manually set the address to which the ELM327 will
respond. Issuing this command will turn off the AR
mode, and force the IC to only accept responses
addressed to hh. Use caution with this setting, as
depending on what you set it to, you may accept a
message that was actually meant for another module,
possibly sending an IFR when you should not. To turn
off the SR filtering, simply send AT AR.
This command has limited use with CAN, as it only
monitors one byte of the ID bits, and that is not likely
selective enough for most CAN applications (the CRA
command may be a better choice). Also, the command
has no effect on the addresses used by the J1939
protocols, as the J1939 routines set their own receive
addresses based on the ID bit (header) values.
This SR command is exactly the same as the RA
command, and can be used interchangeably with it.
Note that CAN Extended Addressing does not use this
value - it uses the one set by the AT TA command.
SS [ use the Standard Sequence for searches ]
SAE standard J1978 specifies a protocol search
order that scan tools should use. It follows the number
order that we have assigned to the ELM327 protocols.
In order to provide a faster search, the ELM327 does
not normally follow this order, but it will if you
command it to with AT SS.
ST hh [ Set Timeout to hh ]
After sending a request, the ELM327 waits a
preset time for a response before it can declare that
there was ‘NO DATA’ received from the vehicle. The
same timer setting may also be used after a response
has been received, while waiting to see if any more is
coming (but this depends on the AT AT setting). The
AT ST command allows this timer to be adjusted, in
increments of 4 msec (or 20 msec if in a CAN protocol,
with CTM5 selected).
When Adaptive Timing is enabled, the AT ST time
sets the maximum time that is to be allowed, even if
the adaptive algorithm determines that the setting
should be longer. In most circumstances, it is best to
simply leave the AT ST time at the default setting, and
let the adaptive timing algorithm determine what to use
for the timeout.
The ST timer is set to 32 by default (giving a time
of approximately 200 msec), but this default setting
can be adjusted by changing PP 03. Note that a value
of 00 does not result in a time of 0 msec – it will
restore the timer to the default value. Also, during
protocol searches, an internally set minimum time is
used - you may select longer times with AT ST, but not
shorter ones.
SW hh [ Set Wakeup to hh ]
Once a data connection has been established,
some protocols require that there be data flow every
few seconds, just so that the ECU knows to maintain
the communications path open. If the messages do not
appear, the ECU will assume that you are finished,
and will close the channel. The connection will need to
be initialized again to reestablish communications.
The ELM327 will automatically generate periodic
messages, as required, in order to maintain a
connection. Any replies to these messages are
ignored by the ELM327, and are not visible to the user.
(Currently, only protocols 3, 4, and 5  support these
messages - nothing is available for CAN. If you require
CAN periodic messages, you must use the ELM329.)
The time interval between these periodic ‘wakeup’
messages can be adjusted in 20 msec increments
using the AT SW hh command, where hh is any
hexadecimal value from 00 to FF. The maximum