28 of 95
ELM327
ELM327DSK Elm Electronics – Circuits for the Hobbyist
www.elmelectronics.com
possible time delay of just over 5 seconds results
when a value of FF (decimal 255) is used. The default
setting (92) provides a nominal delay of 3 seconds
between messages.
Note that the value 00 (zero) is special, as it will
stop the periodic (wakeup) messages. This provides a
control for experimenters to stop the messages while
keeping the rest of the protocol functioning normally,
and is not intended to be used regularly. Issuing
AT SW 00 will not change a prior setting for the time
between wakeup messages, if the protocol is re-
initialized. Once periodic messages have been turned
off with AT SW, they can only be reestablished by
closing and reinitializing the protocol.
TA hh [ set the Tester Address to hh ]
This command is used to change the current
tester (ie. scan tool) address that is used in the
headers, periodic messages, filters, etc. The ELM327
normally uses the value that is stored in PP 06 for this,
but the TA command allows you to temporarily
override that value.
Sending AT TA will affect all protocols, including
J1939. This provides a convenient means to change
the J1939 address from the default value of F9,
without affecting other settings.
Although this command may appear to work ‘on
the fly’, it is not recommended that you try to change
this address after a protocol is active, as the results
may be unpredictable.
TP h [ Try Protocol h ]
This command is identical to the SP command,
except that the protocol that you select is not
immediately saved in internal EEPROM memory, so
does not change the default setting. Note that if the
memory function is enabled (AT M1), and this new
protocol that you are trying is found to be valid, that
protocol will then be stored in memory as the new
default.
TP Ah [ Try Protocol h with Auto ]
This command is very similar to the AT TP
command above, except that if the protocol that is tried
should fail to initialize, the ELM327 will then
automatically sequence through the other protocols,
attempting to connect to one of them.
V0 and V1 [ Variable data lengths off or on ]
Many CAN protocols (ie ISO 15765-4) expect to
send eight data bytes at all times. The V0 and V1
commands may be used to override this behaviour (for
any CAN protocol) should you wish.
Choosing V1 will cause the current CAN protocol
to send variable data length messages, just as bit 6 of
PP 2C and PP 2E do for protocols B and C. It does not
matter what the protocol should be doing - V1 will
override that. This allows experimenting with variable
data length messages on demand.
If you select V0 (the default setting), the forced
sending of variable length CAN messages is turned
off. The format of the sent messages reverts to the
protocol’s settings.
WM [1 to 6 bytes]  [ set Wakeup Message to… ]
This command allows the user to override the
default settings for the wakeup messages (sometimes
known as the ‘periodic idle’ messages). Simply provide
the message that you wish to have sent (typically three
header bytes and one to three data bytes), and the
ELM327 will add the checksum and send them as
required, at the rate determined by the AT SW setting.
Default settings will send the bytes 68 6A F1 01 00
for ISO 9141, and C1 33 F1 3E for KWP.
WS [ Warm Start ]
This command causes the ELM327 to perform a
complete reset. It is very similar to the AT Z command,
but does not include the power on LED test. Users
may find this a convenient way to quickly ‘start over’
without having the extra delay of the AT Z command.
If using variable RS232 baud rates (ie AT BRD
commands), it is preferred that you reset the IC using
this command rather than AT Z, as AT WS will not
affect the chosen RS232 baud rate.
Z [ reset all ]
This command causes the chip to perform a
complete reset as if power were cycled off and then on
again. All settings are returned to their default values,
and the chip will be put into the idle state, waiting for
characters on the RS232 bus. Note that any baud rate
that was set with the AT BRD command will be lost,
and the ELM327 will return to the default baud rate
setting.
AT Command Descriptions (continued)