Setting the Headers (continued)
41 of 95
ELM327
ELM327DSK Elm Electronics – Circuits for the Hobbyist
www.elmelectronics.com
causing a ‘NO DATA’ result. In these cases, you may
want to adjust the timeout value, perhaps first trying
the maximum (ie use AT ST FF). Many vehicles will
simply not support these extra addressing modes.
The other, and more common method of obtaining
information is by physical addressing, in which you
direct your request to a specific device, not to a
functional group. To do this, you again need to
construct a set of header bytes that direct your query
to the physical address of the processor, or ECU. If
you do not know the address, recall that the sender of
information is usually shown in the third byte of the
header. By monitoring your system for a time with the
headers turned on (AT H1), you can quickly learn the
main addresses of the senders. The SAE document
J2178 assigns address ranges to these devices if you
are unsure of which might be most appropriate.
When you know the address that you wish to
‘speak to,’ simply use it for the second byte in the
header (assume an address of 10 for this example).
Combine that with your knowledge of SAE J2178 to
choose a priority/type byte (assume a value of E4 for
this example, as if the vehicle is J1850 PWM). Finally,
you need to identify yourself to the target, so that
responses can be returned to you. As is customary for
diagnostic tools, we’ll use an address of F1. As before,
these three bytes are then assigned to the header with
the set header command:
>AT SH E4 10 F1
OK
From this point on, all messages that the ELM327
sends will use these three bytes for the header. All that
needs to be done now is to request data from the
vehicle. For physical addressing, this is often done
using mode 22:
>22 11 6B
62 11 6B 00 00
The response to this command is of the same
format to those seen for ‘standard’ OBD requests. The
request has been repeated (with 40 added to the
mode value in order to show that this is a response),
and this is followed by the actual data (00 00 in this
case). The PIDs used with mode 22 are usually
proprietary to each manufacturer and are generally not
published widely, so you may have difficulty in
determining the ones to use with your vehicle. Elm
Electronics does not maintain lists of this information,
and cannot provide any further details for you. Mode
22 and others are described in more detail in the SAE
standards document J2190, ‘Enhanced E/E Diagnostic
Test Modes’.
The ISO14230-4 standard defines its header bytes
a little differently. Advanced experimenters will be
aware that for ISO 14230-4, the first header byte must
always include the length of the data field, which
varies from message to message. From that, one
might assume that the you would need to redefine the
header for every message that is to be sent – not so!
The ELM327 always determines the number of bytes
that you are sending, and inserts that length for you, in
the proper place for the header that you are using. If
you are using the standard ISO 14230-4 header, the
length will be put into the first header byte, and you
need only provide the two (most significant) bits of this
byte when defining the header. What you place in the
rest of the byte will be ignored by the ELM327 unless
you set it to 0. If it is 0, it is assumed that you are
experimenting with KWP four byte headers, and the
ELM327 then creates the fourth header byte for you.
Again, you do not need to provide any length to be put
into this byte – it is done for you.
Addressing within the CAN (ISO 15765-4)
protocols is quite similar in many ways. First, consider
the 29 bit standard. The ELM327 splits the 29 bits into
a CAN Priority byte and the three header bytes that we
are now familiar with. This is how they are combined
for use by the ELM327:
>AT SH xx yy zz>AT CP vv
vv xx yy zz
5 bits only
xx yy zzvv
29 bit ID
The CAN standard states that for diagnostics, the
priority byte (‘vv’ in the diagram) will always be 18 (it is
the default value used by the ELM327).  Since it is
rarely changed, it can be assigned separately from the
other header bytes, using the CP command.
The next byte (‘xx’) describes the type of message
that this is, and is set to hex DB for functional