68 of 95ELM327DSK Elm Electronics – Circuits for the Hobbyist
www.elmelectronics.com
ELM327
easily accomplished by sending a space or @
character, if the baud rate is 57.6 kbps or less. If using
higher baud rates, you may wish to consider
temporarily shifting to a lower baud rate and sending a
character, or possibly see if your software can
generate a ‘break’ signal for you. The break signal is
not always the same length, but is typically several
msec long (ie much longer than 128 µsec), and can
often be sent by USB through USB to RS232
conversion devices. You will have to experiment if
using other methods (Bluetooth or WiFi, for example).
The second method to have the ELM327 circuit go
back to full power is by having activity appear on the
OBD input pins. At the first sign of an active level, the
circuit will start its wakeup, and within seconds, will be
at full capability. Note that the logic is configured so
that it must see all quiet on the OBD inputs before it
will allow an automatic wakeup. This does not normally
present a problem, and is implemented so that you
can manually put the circuit to low power (AT LP),
even if there is activity on one of the OBD inputs.
Otherwise, the circuit would wake up immediately after
the AT LP.
When connected to protocols 3, 4 or 5 (ISO 9141-
2 or ISO 14230-4), there may be no OBD activity when
the vehicle is first turned on. In this case, you could not
rely on the activity monitor to wake the circuit and you
would have to look for other means.
The final method that is provided to wake up the
circuit is by way of the ignition monitor input and logic.
A low then high level at the IgnMon input will cause the
ELM327 to return to full power operation. Note that
PP 0E bit 2 does not have to be set for the IgnMon to
wake the circuit - the ELM327 always monitors this
pin, and will wake the circuit after the delay that is set
by PP 0E bit 1.
We are often asked if a switched ‘ignition’ voltage
is available at the vehicle’s diagnostic connector for
this purpose. It is not, so you must connect a separate
wire yourself. Often there are convenient places that
you can use for this - possibly the radio power, or the
connection to a convenience outlet.
Note that we present the pin 15 input as if it is an
ignition monitoring circuit, but in fact, it will monitor for
any change in voltage level (as long as the change is
stable for the debounce period). You might consider
connecting to other inputs (such as the 5V from a USB
cable, for example) - just be sure to protect the
ELM327 input circuitry from transients. This usually
just requires a series resistor of 1K to 10K in value.
One alternative is to provide a pullup resistor to
allow waking of the ELM327 with a momentary
pushbutton switch:
14
1516
2.2KΩ
47KΩ
+5V
If the circuit is in low power mode, a momentary
push of the button will wake it up. This is just one of
the many ways in which you can use this input.
One final note has to do with the changes to the
startup process, beginning with firmware version 2.0.
Initially (with v1.4 and v1.4b), the ELM327 simply used
a warm start command (AT WS) to exit from the low
power mode. The positive feedback that we received
from our ELM329 changes has led us to also change
the wakeup process for the ELM327.
Now, on switching back to full power operation,
the ELM327 performs a warm start, but retains the
following settings:
E0/1 H0/1 L0/1 M0/1
R0/1 D0/1 S0/1 AT0/1/2
CAF0/1 CFC0/1 CSM0/1 CEA
CER* CTM1/5 JTM1/5 AL/NL
IIA *only if CEA was active
In addition, the ISO/KWP baud rate is retained and
the current protocol is not changed (but it is closed, so
will require initialization).
This has discussed how to have the ELM327 go to
low power operation, and wake from it. While in the
low power mode, the question of ‘just how low is the
power consumption’ arises. We discuss that in the
‘Modifications for Low Power Standby Operation’
section, which is on page 85.
Power Control (continued)