General description
2 - 2 MVB Virtual Terminal and PCNode - User Manual and Reference
Multifunction Vehicle Bus – overview
The Multifunction V ehicle Bus (MVB) is a serial communication 
bus for railway vehicles. It connects programmable equipment 
with each other and attaches directly to simple sensors and actua-
tors. It is not intended for communication between vehicles – this is 
the domain of the train bus.
The MVB is standardised by IEC, TC9, WG 22 in the standard Elec-
tric Traction Equipment - Train Communication Network, Parts 1 to 3.
Properties of the MVB
The environment of train vehicles is very hostile for electronic 
equipment. Hence the MVB bears properties which are not needed 
for buses in the computer environment.
Magnetic fields Magnetic fields are omnipresent in train vehicles. Hence the bus 
must operate securely in this environment.
Operating temperature T rain vehicles circulate all over the world. Hence the operating 
temperature can be as low as in a Siberian winter or as high as 
open sunshine in the Arabian desert.
Mechanical stability Mechanical shocks are common to train vehicles. Both the cables 
themselves and the connectors must be absolutely safe for these 
situations. This applies also to the senors, actuators and control-
lers on the bus.
Media and t opology Copper lines are intended for short distances and optical fibres for 
long distances. Using redundant lines allows modification of the 
bus topology without interruption. With copper lines a power line 
may be included to power the bus terminators and also devices on 
the bus.
Signals The MVB uses a media independent method of signalling with 
Manchester encoding.
Bus management Availability is increased, because mastership can be alternated 
between two or more bus administrators. Mastership is transferred 
from one bus master to another by a token frame.
Redundant layout The MVB allows redundant layout with both twisted wire pairs 
and with optical fibre. This increases availability . You can limit 
redundancy to critical segments of the bus.