General description
2 - 4 MVB Virtual Terminal and PCNode - User Manual and Reference
Multifunction Vehicle Bus – details
This section provides background information for system engi-
neers evaluating the capabilities of the Multifunction V ehicle Bus.
This section also provides the necessary details to understand the 
various items used in the dialogs of Virtual Terminal.
For a recapitulation of bus communication in general see the 
appendix chapter.
Bus medium
Topology of the MVB The Multifunction V ehicle Bus is the standard data carrier in loco-
motives, coaches or groups of vehicles not separated during nor-
mal operation. It provides both the interconnection of programma-
ble programmable equipment among themselves and the intercon-
nection of programmable equipment with their sensors and actua-
tors. MVB supports up to 4095 devices.
MVB physical layer  1)The Multifunction V ehicle Bus uses three different media, which 
all operate at a unified speed of 1.5Mb/s.
 an electrical medium for short distances (20m), for instance to 
connect devices within racks and cabinets. This uses standard 
RS 485 transceivers.
 an electrical medium for middle distances (up to 200m) using a 
shielded, twisted wire pair and transformer coupling to pro-
vide galvanic separation,. This uses standard IEC 1158-2 trans-
formers and transceivers.
 optical fibre for longer distances (up to 2000m) and critical 
environments, such as locomotives.
While the electrical media preferable have a bus structure, the 
optical medium usually has a star structure centred on an active or 
passive star coupler. The optical medium can also be laid out as a 
bus, if the number of devices is small enough to permit active or 
passive optical taps.
Configurations In closed train sets, the MVB may span several vehicles. Fibre 
optics are not recommended for this purpose when the vehicles 
are frequently coupled and uncoupled.
The Multifunction V ehicle Bus has no provision to support config-
urable vehicles, the device addresses are fixed.
1 [part 1 / p 40]