General description
2 - 10 MVB Virtual Terminal and PCNode - User Manual and Reference
Ports on the MVB
A terminology issue  8) For the less initiated reader various terms meaning (nearly) the 
same might be confusing. By tradition the object of interest is 
named differently in the various levels of communication. Accord-
ing to the OSI model (see appendix), these are:
Purpose of ports  9) The interval between a master frame (received at the slave side) 
and the responding slave frame is less than 4 µs. To allow a slave 
frame to respond within this time, the frame data is prepared for 
transmission beforehand. A port provides also a means to control 
access, data freshness and interrups. Each device owns a certain 
number of ports, which are configured as source ports or as sink 
ports.
A port ensures that the data is read consistently when it is 
accessed simultaneously by the bus and by the application proces-
sor on the device. This requires at least two memory pages, which 
are used alternatively: while one page is updated by a data-pro-
ducer (that is, the application for source-ports, the bus acces proc-
essor for sink-ports), the other can be accessed.
T wo kinds of ports exist: physical and logical ports.
Logical port Logical ports provide the basic communication for process data. 
They can be seen as windows to the data on the bus. At least two 
devices on the bus subscribe to a particular port on the bus. Only 
8 [part 1 / p 30]
OSI level Remarks
Process variable User messages, 
system messages
Supervisory data Application (level 7) The application’s view on 
the frame data
Dataset Message transfer 
protocol
Transport (4) Frame data (without check 
sums)
Periodic data Message data Supervisory data Logical link control (2b)
Ports (periodic 
access)
Queues (spo-
radic access)
Supervisory 
access
Medium access control 
(level 2a)
Frame data (without check 
sums) + control informa-
tion
Frames with logical address Frames with 
physical address
Physical (1) Data (function code, 
address, etc.) and check 
sums
9 [part 1 / p 46 and 78]