Multifunction Vehicle Bus – details
TN-AC-95/185 95-12-19 2 - 13
Medium access
 11)The Multifunction V ehicle Bus is administered by a dedicated 
device, the bus administrator. The administrator is the only bus 
master, that is, the only device entitled to send master frames. All 
other devices are slaves, they may not transmit spontaneousl y. In 
addition to the master function the administrator provides serv-
ices like clock, configuration, supervision or directory .
The master may be placed at any location in the bus. To increase 
availability , several bus administrators may exist. They transmit 
mastership by a token. At a given time, only one administrator is 
in charge of the bus.
Periodic and sporadic 
transmission
The bus master periodically polls the ports according to a prede-
fined sequence (see Periodic scan list on page 16).
Messages are less less time critical and thus transmitted sporadi-
cally , that is, on demand.
 12) To serve both purposes the bus time is divided into a periodic 
phase and a sporadic phase:
Periodic phase The periodic phase occupies a fixed portion of the traffic on the 
bus. During that time, the bus master polls the devices in 
sequence. A polled device answers with a frame containing its 
periodic data. This answer is broadcasted to all devices. Each 
device picks up from the frame the data items it is interested in. 
The format of this frame is fixed at initialisation time.
Periodic data do not need to be acknowledged by the destination 
devices, since these data is transmitted periodically . This traffic is 
also called source-addressed broadcast.
The periodic phase is reserved for transmission of process data.
11 [part 1 / p 48]
12 [part 3 v1.8 / p 69]
basic period 1 ... 8 ms basic period
periodic 
phase
periodic 
phase
sporadic phase sporadic phase
super-
visory 
phase
super-
visory 
phase
event 
phase
event 
phaseguard phase
123 4 S D ? ? ? 1 234 S D? M D
SD: supervisory data; MD: message data; ?: sporadic data
periodic data periodic data