Multifunction Vehicle Bus – details
TN-AC-95/185 95-12-19 2 - 15
Bus mastering
The bus master polls the devices on the bus according to the entries 
in the master frame table. This table is also called periodic scan list, 
because it is worked off periodically . Master frame tables are part 
of a bus administrator list.
The master issues a master frame at least every 1.3 ms to allow 
each device to monitor the line.
Basic cycle time To enable the bus both for 50Hz and 60HZ systems, the MVB Vir-
tual Terminal and PCNode provides two settings of the basic cycle 
time: 1 ms or 0.833 ms. 1 ms is the value according to MVB stand-
ard and is used for any time-values in this chapter.
Basic period The bus master divides its turn (see later) into fixed periods, 
called basic periods. The basic period T bp may take a value of 1, 2, 
4 or 8 ms (multiples of the basic cycle time). It is generally divided 
into the 4 phases:
p e r i o d i c  p h a s e
s u p e r v i s o r y  p h a s e
e v e n t  p h a s e
g u a r d  p h a s e
Individual poll period Each periodic data source is polled with its individual period T ip. 
This period is defined by the application. The individual poll 
period is equal to the basic period multiplied by a power of 2, but 
can not exceed 1024 ms. Ports with the same individual poll 
period belong to the same cycle  13) .
Cycle A cycle groups periodic data with the same individual poll period. 
It gets the same name as its period in multiple of the basic period. 
For example, cycle_4 is polled every 8 ms when the basic period is 
2m s .
A cycle may be split over several basic periods into sub-cycles. 
Cycles are named according to the number of sub-cycles. Hence 
cycle_4 has 4sub-cycles. The sub-cycles are indexed, starting with 
0. For example, the second sub-cycle of cycle_4 has name 4.1.
Macro period The longest individual period in the periodic scan list is called the 
macroperiod. It can not exceed 1024 ms.
Macro cycle A macrocycle is the number of cycles which fills a macro period. 
Therefore it lasts 1024/T bp basic periods. T bp is the length of the 
13 Definition from [part 3 v 1.8 / p 72]; in [part 1 / p 48] this is called group.