Multifunction Vehicle Bus – details
TN-AC-95/185 95-12-19 2 - 17
Process data
Traffic store  15) The ports of a device are located in the traffic store, a shared 
memory which can be accessed both by the application (in particu-
lar, the Virtual T erminal application of the MVB Virtual Terminal 
and PCNode) and by a bus controller. In very simple devices (field 
device) the ports are reduced to a register, there is no traffic store.
 16) Devices may have up to 16 traffic stores. These need not have 
the same structure, although this is advantageous. This permits 
application programs residing in the same device to communicate 
in the same way as if there were located in different devices. The 
devices handled by Virtual Terminal may have only one traffic 
store.
Dataset  17) The contents of a port is a dataset. A dataset is just a stream of 
bits, which need interpretation according to the requirements of 
the application. All or none data of a dataset are transmitted. A 
dataset is static: its format and size may not be modified on-line.
The different process data of a dataset may be consumed by differ-
ent devices, but a dataset is produced by only one device. When 
polled by the bus master, the producer device broadcasts a frame 
containing the dataset. This frame is received by all devices sub-
scribed to the port carrying that dataset. Each device picks from 
the dataset the process data it is interested in.
The format of datasets – its interpretation – is fixed by the hard-
ware for field devices and configured by the ‘programming and 
test station’ for complex devices (for example, the MVB Virtual 
Terminal and PCNode). The configuration is loaded during initial-
isation time and does not change during operation.
Process variables A dataset is interpreted by process variables. Within a dataset, a 
variable is identified by its bit offset. A dataset is just a stream of 
bits, whereas process variables have a type, for example integer, or 
15 [part 1 / p 80]
16 [part 1 / p 88]
17 [part 1 / p 82]