General description
2 - 18 MVB Virtual Terminal and PCNode - User Manual and Reference
character. A dataset can be interpreted by more than one process 
variables, but their definitions must not overlap.
The dataset of a sink port need not be defined completely by proc-
ess variables. The application on that device might ‘pick up’ only 
the desired information.
Depending on the computer architecture used for the device (for 
example, the PCNode of the MVB Virtual Terminal and PCNode) 
bit-oriented variables and word-oriented variables can not be 
mixed in one dataset. Otherwise the MVB controller can not 
resolve the difference in bit-ordering of little-endian systems Intel, 
DEC) and big-endian systems (Motorola, IBM mainframe).
Variable types  18) While the lower layers of the transport protocol ensure that a 
bit stream can be sent from one device to another, the presentation 
layer ensures that the communicating parties agree on the mean-
ing of that bit-stream. When a device produces a variable, the con-
sumers must know the type to interpret the value. However, the 
specific meaning of a variable is only known when considered in 
context.
Example: a transducer manufacturer specifies that its wheel speed 
is transmitted using the FRACTIONAL200% format. With this 
indication, the destinations of the variables know that the speed 
is, for instance, 87.5% of nominal speed. The value of the nominal 
speed is an additional convention which is not part of the p resen-
tation layer, but the application must know about it.
Basic and constructed 
types
In all modern computer languages, a variable is defined before a 
program uses it. This declaration defines the type of the variable. 
There are basic (built into the language) types like “integer”, 
“float” or “character”. Structured types are assemblies of basic 
types and may be structured as “array”, “record”, “set” or “file” 
of basic types. The storage in memory of a variable of a specific 
ports
port-j
port-k
variable-a variable-b variable-c
var-d var-e var-f var-g
traffic-storemaster
frame
table
(MFT)
I/O window in PC-memory
MVB-controller
Device (bus administrator)
dataset
port-l
in case of PCNode
18 [part 1 / p 90] and [part 2 / p 143]