Chapter 1. Scope
This document defines the protocol used between a Charging Station and a Charging Station Management System in an EV
charging infrastructure in the form of use cases. If the protocol requires a certain action or response from one side or the other,
then this will be stated in this document.
This part of the specification does not define the communication technology. In order to ensure widespread compatibility OCPP
2.0.1 is limited to JSON. The specifications for the JSON implementation are in "Part 4 - JSON over WebSockets implementation
guide".
1.1. OCPP 2.0.1
This specification defines version 2.0.1 of OCPP.
After the release of OCPP 2.0, some issues were found in OCPP 2.0. Some of these issues could not be fixed issuing errata to the
specification text only, as has been done with OCPP 1.6, but required changes to the protocol’s machine-readable schema
definition files that cannot be backward compatible.
To prevent confusion in the market and possible interoperability issues in the field, OCA has decided to name this version: 2.0.1.
OCPP 2.0.1 contains fixes for all the known issues, to date, not only the fixes to the messages.
This version replaces OCPP 2.0. OCA advises implementers of OCPP to no longer implement OCPP 2.0 and only use version 2.0.1
going forward.
As a rule, existing numbered requirements are only updated or removed, previously used requirements numbers are never reused
for a totally different requirement.
Any mentions of "OCPP 2.0" refers to revision 2.0.1 unless specifically stated otherwise.
1.2. OCPP 2.0.1 Edition 4
A number of errata documents have been released for OCPP 2.0.1 Edition 3 that was released in 2024. These errata until and
including Errata 2025-11 have been incorporated in this document, “OCPP-2.0.1_edition4_part2_specification”, such that it is no
longer necessary to read these errata in addition to the specification. The incorporation of the errata in edition 4 does not affect any
schemas of OCPP messages. Certain errata did contain changes to requirements or even new requirements, but only in cases
where a requirement contains an obvious error and would not or could not be implemented as described. New requirements were
only added when they were already implicitly there. These changes have been discussed in or were proposed by the Technology
Working Group of the Open Charge Alliance.
The appendices of the OCPP 2.0.1 part 2 can be updated without requiring a new OCPP release. This mainly concerns the
components and variables of the OCPP device model, which can be extended with new components or variables, as long as they
are optional.
Edition 4, 2025-12-03 Generic
OCPP 2.0.1 Edition 4 - © Open Charge Alliance 2025 4/491 Part 2 - Specification