Terminology Description
Public-key cryptography "Cryptographic scheme where a public key is published and henceforth can be used for
encryption of messages or verification of digital signatures. Each public key has a counterpart,
the corresponding private key. This key must be kept secret and is used for decryption or
digital signing of messages. Public-key primitives have a high computational complexity for
encryption and therefore are mostly used as part of a hybrid encryption scheme where the
public key is used to communicate a common symmetric session key under which all further
communication is encrypted. Certificates administered by a public-key infrastructure are used
to establish the authenticity of the public key. See also ENISA, reference OCPP Security [12].
The most popular public-key encryption scheme is RSA. Digital signatures can be generated
most efficiently with elliptic-curve based (EC) mechanisms."
Public-key infrastructure System to generate, administer, and revoke certificates.
Resume regular transaction Used in sequence diagrams to indicate that this use case/sequence diagram has ended, but
the transaction has not ended and will continue, but that is outside of scope of that specific
use case.
Requirement Provision that conveys criteria to be fulfilled. ISO/IEC Guide 2:2004, 7.5.
Security Event Any event relevant to the secure operation of the device.
Security Function Any function on the device that is needed for it to be operated securely, including access
control, authentication, and encryption.
Session A Session in OCPP is a general term that refers to the charging process of an EV, that might
include a Transaction.
Session key Symmetric key with a limited lifetime.
Symmetric cryptography Sender and receiver hold the same key. Examples for symmetric primitives are block ciphers or
MACs.
Transaction A transaction in OCPP is a part of the complete process of charging an EV that starts and
stops based on configurable parameters. These configurable parameters refer to moments in
the charging process, such as the EV being connected or the EV driver being authorized.
Tariff Collection of prices depending on charging time, power usage and other price affecting
parameters.
Use case A use case is a structured way of describing the (inter)actions necessary to achieve a certain
objective. In this document, a use case consists of an actor list, a scenario description,
postconditions and a sequence diagram and is always followed by a list of numbered
requirements.
User Authentication Verification of the identity of the communication partners (e.g., user on the device). Moreover,
verification that the communication partners are still alive throughout a session.
2.2.2. ISO 15118 and OCPP terminology mapping
This section is informative.
The ISO 15118 terminology is more comprehensive when referring to specific components within EVs and Charging Stations. The
following table shows a "mapping" of these terms.
Table 3. ISO 15118 and OCPP terminology mapping
ISO 15118 OCPP
ChargingProfile (contains the power over time the EV is planned
to consume)
Loosely corresponds to ChargingSchedule in
NotifyEVChargingSchedule message.
SASchedule (the power limits from a secondary actor for
charging an EV for a specific time)
Loosely corresponds to ChargingProfile in SetChargingProfile
message.
EVCC (i.e. Electric Vehicle Communication Controller) Controller in the EV that is used for ISO 15118 communication.
Outlet Connector
SECC (i.e. Supply Equipment Communication Controller) Controller in the EVSE of the Charging Station that is used for
ISO 15118 communication.
SA (i.e. Secondary Actor) CSMS (or other backend systems)
2.3. Abbreviations
Edition 4, 2025-12-03 Generic
OCPP 2.0.1 Edition 4 - © Open Charge Alliance 2025 8/491 Part 2 - Specification