Abbreviation Description
URL Uniform Resource Locator - refers to the subset of URIs that, in addition to identifying a resource, provide a means
of locating the resource by describing its primary access mechanism (e.g., its network "location").
UTC Coordinated Universal Time
WAN Wide Area Network.
2.3.2. ISO 15118 Abbreviations
This section contains the abbreviations from ISO 15118 that are used in this document.
Table 5. ISO 15118 Abbreviations
EIM External Identification Means
EMAID E-Mobility Account Identifier
EVCC EV Communication Controller
HLC High Level Communication
HMI Human Machine Interface
LAN Local Area Network
MO Mobility Operator
OEM Original Equipment Manufacturer
OCSP Online Certificate Status Protocol
PWM Pulse Width Modulation
SA Secondary Actor
SECC Supply Equipment Communication Controller
V2G Vehicle to Grid
2.4. Actors
This section is informative.
In OCPP, system actors are covering functions or devices.
Table 6. Actors
Actor name Actor type Actor description
EV Driver Actor The Driver of an EV who wants to charge the EV at a Charging Station.
Connector Device The term "Connector", as used in this specification, refers to an independently
operated and managed electrical outlet on a Charging Station. In other words,
this corresponds to a single physical Connector. In some cases an EVSE may
have multiple Connectors: for example a DC EVSE with a CCS2 and a
CHAdeMO connector).
CSMS System Charging Station Management System: manages Charging Stations and has
the information for authorizing Users for using its Charging Stations.
Charging Station Device The Charging Station is the physical system where an EV can be charged. A
Charging Station has one or more EVSEs.
Charging Station
Operator
Actor A party that manages a CSMS.
Electric Vehicle Device An electric vehicle (EV) is a type of vehicle that is powered by one or more
electric motors, using energy stored in rechargeable batteries.
Local Controller Device A logical entity logically placed between a CSMS and one or more Charging
Stations that has the ability to control charging of a group of Charging
Stations based on the input from the CSMS and/or external systems.
External Control System Actor An external system that may impose charging limits/constraints on the
Charging Station or CSMS, for example a DSO or EMS.
Edition 4, 2025-12-03 Generic
OCPP 2.0.1 Edition 4 - © Open Charge Alliance 2025 10/491 Part 2 - Specification