Chapter 1. OCPP Security
This Functional Block describes the security requirements for the OCPP protocol. The security part was developed to strengthen
and mature the future development and standardization of OCPP. It is based amongst others on the end-to-end security design by
LaQuSo [21]. Security requirements are included on security measures at Charging Station and CSMS, to support users of the
OCPP.
1.1. Security Objectives
This section is informative.
OCPP security has been designed to meet the following security objectives:
1. To allow the creation of a secure communication channel between the CSMS and Charging Station. The integrity and
confidentiality of messages on this channel should be protected with strong cryptographic measures.
2. To provide mutual authentication between the Charging Station and the CSMS. Both parties should be able to identify who
they are communicating with.
3. To provide a secure firmware update process by allowing the Charging Station to check the source and the integrity of
firmware images, and by allowing non-repudiation of these images.
4. To allow logging of security events to facilitate monitoring the security of the smart charging system. A list of security
related events and their 'criticality' is provided in the appendices.
1.2. Design Considerations
This section is informative.
The security Functional Block was designed to fit into the approach taken in OCPP. Standard web technologies are used whenever
possible to allow cost-effective implementations using available web libraries and software. No application layer security measures
are included. Based on these considerations, OCPP security is based on TLS and public key cryptography using X.509 certificates.
Because the CSMS usually acts as the server, different users or role-based access control on the Charging Station are not
implemented in this standard. To mitigate this, it is recommended to implement access control on the CSMS. To make sure the
mechanisms implemented there cannot be bypassed, OCPP should not be used by qualified personnel performing maintenance to
Charging Stations locally at the Charging Station, as other protocols may be used for local maintenance purposes.
Edition 4, 2025-12-03 A. Security
OCPP 2.0.1 Edition 4 - © Open Charge Alliance 2025 17/491 Part 2 - Specification