E08 - Transaction stopped while Charging Station is offline
No. Type Description
1 Name Transaction stopped while Charging Station is offline
2 ID E08
Parent use case E07 - Local Stop Transaction
3 Objective(s) To enable the EV Driver to stop a transaction while the Charging Station is Offline.
4 Description This use case describes how an EV Driver can stop a transaction while the Charging Station is
Offline. While a transaction is ongoing and the Charging Station is Offline, the EV Driver presents
his IdToken, if the Charging Stations knows locally (without asking the CSMS) that this IdToken is
allowed to stop the transaction, it will stop the ongoing transaction.
When the Charging Station restores the connection with the CSMS, it needs to send the
information about this Offline stop transaction to the CSMS.
Actors Charging Station, CSMS, EV Driver
Scenario description 1. The EV Driver presents IdToken to stop the transaction.
2. When this is the same IdToken as was used to start the transaction, or via the Local
Authorization List and / or Authorization Cache the GroupId can be validated: the transaction is
stopped.
3. The Charging Station stops the energy offer.
4. The TransactionEventRequest (eventType = Ended) is stored/queued by the Charging Station.
5. The connection between Charging Station and CSMS is restored.
6. The Charging Station starts to send queued messages
7. The stored TransactionEventRequest is sent, notifying the CSMS about the transaction that
was stopped.
5 Prerequisite(s) Transaction ongoing and connection lost.
6 Postcondition(s) Charging Station is in Idle status.
7 Error handling n/a
8 Remark(s) groupId check must be done on Local Authorization List and / or Authorization Cache if available.
The scenario description and sequence diagram above are based on the Configuration Variable
for stop transaction being configured as follows.
TxStopPoint: ParkingBayOccupancy, EVConnected, Authorized
This use-case is also valid for other configurations, but then the transaction might stop at another
moment, which might change the sequence in which message are sent. For more details see the
use case: E06 - Stop Transaction options
Edition 4, 2025-12-03 E. Transactions
OCPP 2.0.1 Edition 4 - © Open Charge Alliance 2025 154/491 Part 2 - Specification