© 2026 imc Test & Measurement GmbH
Errors and changes excepted
Data Sheet Version 4.15 - 2026-02-27
Page   4
imc fieldbus interfaces
Technical Data Sheet
https://www.imc-tm.com
CAN FD Bus
CAN FD Bus is an expansion of the standard CAN protocol, having a flexibly increasable transfer rate of up to
8 Mbit/s. In the automotive field in particular, it expands the scope of applications, the data transfer rate, and
the bus capacity. The imc CAN FD Bus interface provides two independent, galvanically isolated CAN-nodes, via
which two CAN-busses can be integrated into an imc measurement device, with the ability to both send and
receive. It can be software-configured both for CAN FD mode and conventional standard CAN mode, and
supports all relevant variants of the CAN FD standard (ISO and non-ISO).
Terminal connection:
· 2x DSUB-9 (1 galvanically isolated node per connector)
Software and operation:
· The module is fully supported by the imc STUDIO operating software.
· The CAN FD interface can be configured by software to operate in either CAN FD mode or standard CAN
protocol (max. 1 MBaud).
· The CAN Bus settings are made by means of an assistant (wizard program). Operation of the assistant is
described in the manual for the operating software.
· As extra options for the devices equipped with a CAN interface, a package is available (in conjunction with
imc Online FAMOS), which supports ECU protocols: OBD-2, CCP,
KW2000, XCPoC (XCP over CAN), and more.
Transfer protocol:
· CAN FD (ISO 11898-1:2015) 8 MBaud
· CAN High Speed (ISO 11898) 1 MBaud
· CAN Low Speed (ISO 11519) 125 KBaud
Isolation strength:
· 60 V to system ground (case, CHASSIS)
Software minimum requirements:
Operation of devices with CAN FD interface requires software of the following group:
imc STUDIO 5.0 R5 in conjunction with firmware and driver package imc DEVICES 2.9 R6.
Note
Upgrade-Option
An upgrade option is exclusively available for imc CRONOScompact (CRC) systems and
imc CRONOSflex (CRFX) base units that have been delivered after 2015 and equipped with a CAN Bus
Interface
. The upgrade will replace the CAN Bus Interface with CAN FD Bus interface.
2