© 2026 imc Test & Measurement GmbH
Errors and changes excepted
Data Sheet Version 4.15 - 2026-02-27
Page   10
imc fieldbus interfaces
Technical Data Sheet
https://www.imc-tm.com
XCPoE Master-Slave
The "Extended Calibration Protocol" XCP is a transfer protocol with particular importance in the automotive
industry, dedicated mainly to communication between control units (ECUs). This module provides and XCP
interface for imc devices, using Ethernet as the transport layer (oE = over-Ethernet). Both Master and Slave are
available. 
Terminal connection:
· 1 x RJ45 Ethernet 100 Mbit/s
Slave:
The imc measurement device operates as the Slave and can provide the data it captures to external applications
via Ethernet. In this case, the imc device behaves as a control unit. This enables it to be integrated into other
environments: the data are directly accessible for standard software packages from various manufacturers, such
as Canape by Vector, or INCA by ETAS.
The "Slave" mode causes the communication to be mainly governed by the external XCP-Master and not be the
imc system. Slave mode does not actually determine in which direction (in/out) this communication flows. In
principle, for an XCP-Slave, not only the output of variables is defined, but also the input (stimulus), even though
this mode is not currently supported by the imc Slave module! 
· Configuration of the XCPoE destination device is achieved by means of an A2L-file which is automatically
composed when an imc system configuration is prepared.
The following channel types can be used as the signal source:
· analog/digital sampled input channels
· analog/digital sampled Fieldbus input channels, but no fieldbus log channels
· sampled virtual channels (imc Online FAMOS channels, but no FFTs and no histograms)
· The channels must be triggered by the "BaseTrigger" (an "immediate trigger").
This channel mapping concept is applicable as of the following software version:
imc STUDIO 5.0 R1 in conjunction with imc DEVICES 2.8 R5 SP4 firmware and drivers 
For full functionality (especially pv and sending functions) imc Online FAMOS Professional OFA Pro (additional
license) is required.
The XCPoE client requests the measured data after configuration of the device. High-speed synchronized data
transfer up to 50 kHz per channel is achieved via Ethernet:
· The channel data are propagated via XCP at their individual and original data rates.
· This also applies to the virtual channels, which thus allows more than 2 data rates within the system. A
maximum of 5 different output rates are supported: this limit is imposed by the XCP protocol itself! 
· The XCP messages are assigned a time stamp which refers to the date of acquisition by the imc system. All
channels in the XCP message are perfectly synchronous, because this is the case for the entire imc system,
even across different types of modules and channel types.
Master:
The imc measurement device operates as the XCPoE Master and can capture data from an ECU via the XCP
protocol.
· Configuration of the XCP-Master (imc device) is achieved by means of an A2L-file which must be available
for the ECU addressed.
· The sampling rate for recording the XCP channels can be set up to max. 10 kHz.