© 2026 imc Test & Measurement GmbH
Errors and changes excepted
Data Sheet Version 4.15 - 2026-02-27
Page   12
imc fieldbus interfaces
Technical Data Sheet
https://www.imc-tm.com
PROFIBUS
PROFIBUS-DP has achieved world-wide prevalence as an industrial fieldbus for production- and process
automation. Both sensors and actuators as well as multiple distributed control systems can be networked at
data rates of up to 12 Mbit/s. 
The imc PROFIBUS Interface allows the active communication within a Profibus network to be logged and
interpreted. It provides the ability to extract individual messages from that communication stream and to display
the data they contain as measurement channels. 
To configure the interface, detailed knowledge of the Profibus network’s configuration is required. For instance,
in order to extract a datagram from a message, the following information is needed:
1. the PROFIBUS network's data transfer rate
2. the PROFIBUS protocol used
3. the bus address of the message's sender
4. the bus address of the message's recipient
5. Byte/bit offset of the datagram in the message.
In general, the information required can be obtained from the configuration of the PROFIBUS Master and the
description of the respective PROFIBUS-Slave (GSD-file).
Note: Since there is no logic connection to the Profibus network, sending and receiving data as a bus subscriber
is not supported. In consequence, the imc PROFIBUS Interface does neither constitute a master nor a slave, but
works instead as an independent "sniffer", capable of logging and observing the existing communication.
Terminal connection:  1x DSUB-9 
Software and operation:
· The module is fully supported by the imc STUDIO operating software for the measurement system.
· For configuration of the PROFIBUS, a dedicated software assistant is provided.
Transfer protocols:  DPV0, DPV1
Isolation strength:  60 V to system ground (case, CHASSIS)
Technical Specs - PROFIBUS
Parameter
Value
Remarks
Nodes
1
Terminal connection
1x DSUB-9 per module
RS 485
Transfer protocol
DPV0, DPV1
Operating mode
Sniffer (logging of existing bus
communication)
no master, no slave
Baud rate
max. 12 Mbit/s
Max. cable length at data
transfer rate
PROFIBUS specification
Isolation strength
60 V
to system ground (case, CHASSIS)