© 2026 imc Test & Measurement GmbH
Errors and changes excepted
Data Sheet Version 4.15 - 2026-02-27
Page   13
imc fieldbus interfaces
Technical Data Sheet
https://www.imc-tm.com
PROFINET-IRT
Profinet as the communication standard of the real-time-capable Industrial Ethernet is used in particular for
networking industrial controllers such as PLCs and machine tools.
The PROFINET-IRT interface supports the connection of imc devices to such environments for bidirectional
exchange of machine parameters, control variables, measured values, alarms etc. It is implemented according to
conformity class CC-C, and thus supports real-time functionality, in particular through mechanisms of
synchronization (PTP) and reserved bandwidth (IRT = Isochronous Real Time).
The interface turns an imc device into a full-fledged IO-Device participant and is physically coupled or looped
into the control network by two dedicated RJ45 connectors (internal Ethernet switch).
For full functionality (especially pv and sending functions) imc Online FAMOS Professional OFA Pro (additional
license) is required.
The properties of the imc system as a Profinet IO-Device are encapsulated and completely described in a GSD file
(General Station Description). This file is also available via the imc website. This allows to get an overview of the
module's capabilities already offline and to create configurations with a Profinet configuration tool such as TIA
Portal or similar.
Within imc STUDIO the interface is fully supported by an Assistant (configuration wizard). It allows for example
the assignment of the variables and data to be exchanged to channels and pv-variables of the device. The
software also includes a data type converter which can map and match various data formats (e.g. Int, .Float, Big-
Endian / Little-Endian).
Technical Specs - PROFINET-IRT
Profinet-Class
Value
Remarks
Node
1
Device class
IO-DEVICE
Functionality
CC-C
Conformance Class C
Profinet-Certification
Netload Class III
certified according to
PNIO-version V2.34
Cyclic data exchange
RT, IRT
Minimum supported bus cycle
time
250 µs
Isochronous Real Time (IRT)