© 2026 imc Test & Measurement GmbH
Errors and changes excepted
Data Sheet Version 4.15 - 2026-02-27
Page   15
imc fieldbus interfaces
Technical Data Sheet
https://www.imc-tm.com
EtherCAT Slave
The fieldbus module EtherCAT Slave Interface (imc ECAT-Slave-IF) provides the integration of imc measurement
devices and fieldbus loggers into an automation system based on an EtherCAT fieldbus.
The complete imc CRONOS device is integrated via the interface into the EtherCAT fieldbus as a Slave module,
which is operated by an external EtherCAT Master.
Data from the imc measurement device are thus available throughout an EtherCAT system and integration of the
device into other system environments is achieved. This interface is not limited to readout of data and variables
from the imc system. Moreover, variables and system parameters of the imc system (Slave) can also be set and
manipulated by the external EtherCAT Master, which allows for close interaction and further control schemes.
Terminal connection:
· 2x RJ45 EtherCAT 100 Mbit/s
· with CRONOS-XT (CRXT) 2x M8 - EtherCAT 100 Mbit/s
EtherCAT cable (CRXT System Bus)
ACC/CABLE-ECAT-M8-2M
EtherCAT cable CRXT, on both sides M8-plug, 2 m
13500386
ACC/CABLE-ECAT-M8-RJ45-2M
EtherCAT cable CRXT, on one side M8-plug to RJ45, 2 m
13500387
ACC/CABLE-ECAT-M8-10M
EtherCAT cable CRXT, on both sides M8-plug, 10 m
13500388
ACC/CABLE-ECAT-M8-RJ45-10M
EtherCAT cable CRXT, on one side M8-plug to RJ45, 10 m
13500389
Software and operation:
The module is fully supported by the imc STUDIO operating software for the measurement system. For the
configuration, a dedicated software assistant is provided. The assistant's instructions can be found in the manual
of the operating software.
For full functionality (especially pv and sending functions) imc Online FAMOS Professional OFA Pro (additional
license) is required.
· As the signal source, the imc device’s process vector is used. This means that the measurement channels
and virtual channels represented by process vector variables are available to external subscribers and
systems via EtherCAT. The data are available and valid directly after preparation, independently of trigger
releases.
· Via the interface, it is possible to read and write process vector variables (pv-variables) of the imc system.
Reading and writing can occur either cyclically or irregularly.
· Cyclic data are transmitted periodically after the fieldbus and the imc measurement system start.
· Irregular data can be queried asynchronous by the EtherCAT Master by means of the protocol CoE
(CANopen over EtherCAT), which is supported by the imc system.
· The imc measurement device is parameterized via the device software imc STUDIO. The configuration is
transferred to the EtherCAT master via an "EtherCAT-Slave-Information" document (ESI) in XML format.
Transfer protocol:
· EtherCAT Specification – Part 4 - Data Link Layer protocols specification
· EtherCAT Specification – Part 6 - Application Layer protocol specification
Isolation strength: Standard isolation of EtherCAT interface