Chapter 4. RPC framework
4.1. Introduction
A websocket is a full-duplex connection, simply put a pipe where data goes in and data can come out and without a clear relation
between in and out. The WebSocket protocol by itself provides no way to relate messages as requests and responses. To encode
these request/response relations we need a small protocol on top of WebSocket. This problem occurs in more use cases of
WebSocket so there are existing schemes to solve it. The most widely-used is WAMP (see [WAMP]) but with the current version of
that framework handling RPCs symmetrically is not WAMP compliant. Since the required framework is very simple we decided to
define our own framework, inspired by WAMP, leaving out what we do not need and adding what we find missing.
Basically what we need is very simple: we need to send a message (CALL) and receive a reply (CALLRESULT) or an explanation why
the message could not be handled properly (CALLERROR). For possible future compatibility we will keep the numbering of these
message in sync with WAMP. Our actual OCPP message will be put into a wrapper that at least contains the type of message, a
unique message ID and the payload, the OCPP message itself.
4.1.1. Synchronicity
A Charging Station or CSMS SHALL NOT send a CALL message to the other party unless the CALL message it sent before has been
responded to or has timed out. This does not mean that the CSMS cannot send a message to another Charging Station, while
waiting for a response of a first Charging Station, this rule is per OCPP-J connection. A CALL message has been responded to when
a CALLERROR or CALLRESULT message has been received with the message ID of the CALL message.
A CALL message has timed out when:
• it has not been responded to, and
• an implementation-dependent timeout interval has elapsed since the message was sent.
Implementations are free to choose this timeout interval. It is RECOMMENDED that they take into account the kind of network used
to communicate with the other party. Mobile networks typically have much longer worst-case round-trip times than fixed lines.
NOTE
The above requirements do not rule out that a Charging Station or CSMS will receive a CALL message from the
other party while it is waiting for a CALLERROR or CALLRESULT. Such a situation is difficult to prevent because
CALL messages from both sides can always cross each other.
Edition 4, 2025-12-03
OCPP 2.0.1 Edition 4 - © Open Charge Alliance 2025 9/26 Part 4 - JSON over WebSockets implementation guide