Modbus.org 
MB-TCP-Security-v36_2021-07-30 
                                                  3 
 
 
1 Conformance Levels 57 
 58 
 59 
Table 1 Conformance Levels 60 
Latest 
conventions 
available 
up-to-now 
In a standard document, specific notations shall be used to define the 
significance of each particular requirement. These notations (words) are 
highlighted by capitalization. 
As Consistency Rules may have the target to be presented to a 
standards body in order to become an international standard, the 
selection of the words "SHALL" and "MUST" should be made according 
to the rules of the organization that covers the standardization in the 
affected area of the Specification. 
Compliance An implementation that satisfies all the MUST / SHALL requirements is 
said to be “unconditionally compliant”. 
One that satisfies all the MUST requirements but not all the SHOULD 
recommendations is said to be “conditionally compliant”. 
An implementation is not compliant if it fails to satisfy one or more of the 
MUST / SHALL requirements that it implements 
MUST 
SHALL 
REQUIRED 
All requirements containing the word "MUST / SHALL" are mandatory. 
 
The word "MUST / SHALL", or the adjective "REQUIRED", means that 
the item is an absolute requirement of the implementation. 
MUST NOT 
SHALL NOT 
All requirements containing the word "MUST NOT/ SHALL NOT" are 
mandatory. 
 
The phrase "MUST NOT” or the phrase “SHALL NOT” mean that the 
item is an absolute prohibition of the specification. 
SHOULD 
RECOMMENDED 
All recommendations containing the word "SHOULD", or the adjective 
“RECOMMENDED” are considered desired behaviour. 
 
These recommendations should be used as a guideline when choosing 
between different options to implement functionality. In uncommon 
circumstances, valid reasons may exist to ignore this item, but the full 
implication should be understood and the case carefully weighed before 
choosing a different course. 
MAY 
OPTIONAL 
The word “MAY”, or the adjective "OPTIONAL", means that this item is 
truly optional. 
 
One implementer may choose to include the item because a particular 
marketplace requires it or because it enhances the product; another 
implementer may omit the same item. 
 61 
 62 
 63 
2 Normative Statements 64 
 65 
Normative statements in this technical specification are called out explicitly as follows:  66 
 67 
 68 
 69 
where "n.m" is replaced by the requirement statement tag number which can be a hierarchical 70 
number, e.g. R-1.2.3 or a simple integer, e.g. R-1. 71 
 72 
R-n.m: Normative statement text goes here.  
 