Chapter 3. WebSockets
For the connection between a Charging Station and a Charging Station Management System (CSMS) using OCPP-J, the CSMS acts
as a WebSocket server and the Charging Station acts as a WebSocket client.
3.1. Client request
To set up a connection, the Charging Station initiates a WebSocket connection as described in [RFC6455] section 4, "Opening
Handshake".
OCPP-J imposes extra constraints on the URL and the WebSocket subprotocol, detailed in the following two sections 3.1.1 and
3.1.2.
The Client (Charging Station) SHALL keep this WebSocket connection open all the time.
3.1.1. The connection URL
To initiate a WebSocket connection, the Charging Station needs a URL ([RFC3986]) to connect to. This URL is henceforth called the
"connection URL". This connection URL is specific to a Charging Station. The Charging Station’s connection URL contains the
Charging Station identity so that the CSMS knows which Charging Station a WebSocket connection belongs to. However it is
RECOMMENDED to let the CSMS NOT solely rely on the connection URL to identify a Charging Station, but to double-check the
Charging Station’s identity against their authentication credentials.
A CSMS supporting OCPP-J MUST provide at least one OCPP-J endpoint URL, from which the Charging Station SHOULD derive its
connection URL. This OCPP-J endpoint URL can be any URL with a "ws" or "wss" scheme. How the Charging Station obtains an
OCPP-J endpoint URL is outside of the scope of this document.
To derive its connection URL, the Charging Station modifies the OCPP-J endpoint URL by appending to the path first a '/' (U+002F
SOLIDUS) and then a string uniquely identifying the Charging Station. This uniquely identifying string has to be percent-encoded /
URL encoded as necessary as described in [RFC3986].
Example 1: for a Charging Station with identity "CS001" connecting to a CSMS with OCPP-J endpoint URL
"ws://csms.example.com/ocpp" this would give the following connection URL:
ws://csms.example.com/ocpp/CS001
Example 2: for a Charging Station with identity "RDAM|123" connecting to a CSMS with OCPP-J endpoint URL
"wss://csms.example.com/ocppj" this would give the following URL:
wss://csms.example.com/ocppj/RDAM%7C123
The Charging Station identity datatype is identifierString (For definition see [OCPP2.1-PART2] . In addition, the colon ":" character
SHALL NOT be used, because the unique identifier is also used for the basic authentication username. The colon ":" character is
used to separate the basic authentication username and the password. The maximum length of the Charging Station identity is: 48
characters. (Note: Maximum length was chosen to ensure compatibility with EVSE ID from [ISO15118-2]."
3.1.2. OCPP version negotiation
(Updated in OCPP 2.1)
The OCPP version(s) MUST be specified in the Sec-Websocket-Protocol field. The client lists the OCPP version(s) it supports in
order of preference. They SHOULD be one or more of the following values:
Table 1. OCPP Versions
OCPP version WebSocket subprotocol name
1.2 ocpp1.2
1.5 ocpp1.5
1.6 ocpp1.6
2.0 ocpp2.0
2.0.1 ocpp2.0.1
2.1 ocpp2.1
Edition 2, 2025-12-03
OCPP 2.1 Edition 2 - © Open Charge Alliance 2025 6/28 Part 4 - JSON over WebSockets implementation guide