4.1.2. Message validity and Character encoding
The whole message consisting of wrapper and payload MUST be valid JSON encoded with the UTF-8 (see [RFC3629]) character
encoding. Furthermore, the Charging Station and CSMS have the right to reject messages which are not conform the JSON
schemas.
Note that all valid US-ASCII text is also valid UTF-8, so if a system sends only US-ASCII text, all messages it sends comply with the
UTF-8 requirement. Non US-ASCII characters SHOULD only be used for sending natural-language text. An example of such natural-
language text is the MessageType which contains the text of a DisplayMessage in OCPP 2.1
4.1.3. The message type
(Updated in OCPP 2.1)
To identify the type of message one of the following Message Type Numbers MUST be used.
Table 3. Message types
MessageType Message
Type
Number
Description
CALL 2 Request message, i.e. messages ending in "Request"
CALLRESULT 3 Response message, i.e. message ending in "Response"
CALLERROR 4 Error response to a request message
CALLRESULTERROR 5 (2.1) Error response to a response message
SEND 6 (2.1) Unconfirmed message without response, i.e. messages not ending in
"Request" or "Response"
When a system receives a message with a Message Type Number not in this list, it SHALL ignore the message payload. Each
message type may have additional required fields.
4.1.4. Message ID
The message ID serves to identify a request. A message ID for any CALL or SEND message MUST be different from all message
IDs previously used by the same sender for any other CALL or SEND message on any WebSocket connection using the same
unique Charging Station identifier. The message ID for a retried message (e.g. when no response was received within timeout) MAY
be identical to the message ID of the original message.
A message ID for a CALLRESULT or CALLERROR message MUST be equal to that of the CALL message that the CALLRESULT or
CALLERROR message is a response to.
A message ID for a CALLRESULTERROR message MUST be equal to that of the CALLRESULT message that caused the
CALLRESULTERROR message to be sent.
Table 4. Unique Message ID
Name Datatype Restrictions
messageId string[36] Unique message ID, maximum length of 36 characters, to allow for UUIDs/GUIDs
4.1.5. JSON Payload
The Payload of a message is a JSON object containing the arguments relevant to the Action.
If there is no payload JSON allows for two different notations: null or and empty object {}. Although it seems trivial, we consider it
good practice to only use the empty object statement. Null usually represents something undefined, which is not the same as
empty, and also {} is shorter.
When a field is optional in the OCPP action (0..1 or 0..*) and is left empty for a specific request/response, JSON allows for a couple
of different ways to put this in a JSON string. But because OCPP is designed for wireless links, OCPP only allows 1 option: Do no
put the field in the payload (so null, {} or [] are not allowed for an empty field).
When a field has a cardinality of zero/one to many (0..* or 1..*) and it has been given one entity, than it will still remain a list, but of
size 1.
Edition 2, 2025-12-03
OCPP 2.1 Edition 2 - © Open Charge Alliance 2025 10/28 Part 4 - JSON over WebSockets implementation guide