Chapter 6. OCPP Routing
For some topologies it is required to route OCPP-J messages. For example when implementing a Local Controller.
This section contains a solution for OCPP message routing that will work with any Charging Station and CSMS.
6.1. Local Controller
A Local controller is a device that sits between the CSMS and any number of Charging Stations, creating a local group. It is located
near to the Charging Station (maybe even connected wired to the Charging Stations), so it does not have problem of losing the
connection to the Charging Stations. This is practically useful for doing Local Smart Charging: load balancing between the Charging
Stations on the same location. The Local Controller can see all the messages, ongoing transactions etc. It can send charging
profiles to the Charging Station to influence the energy used by the Charging Stations, this way preventing the group to use more
energy than available at the location at that time.
The Local Controller SHALL work so the Charging Station doesn’t have to behave different when connected to the Local Controller,
compared to a direct connection to a CSMS. A Local Controller SHALL work so that a Charging Station can work out of the box with
the Local Controller, requiring only the parameters that are needed to connect to the Local Controller to be set. The Local Controller
SHALL work so that the CSMS can not notice if the Charging Station is connecting to it directly, or via the Local Controller.
Local group
Local Controller
CS00
Charging Station
CS01
Charging Station
CS02
Charging Station
CS03
CSMS
Figure 4. Local Controller Topology
6.2. Connections
For each Charging Station that connects to the Local Controller, two connections will be established:
1. A WebSocket connection from the Charging Station to the Local Controller (configured in the Charging Station)
2. A WebSocket connection from the Local Controller to the CSMS (configured in the Local Controller)
Both connections SHOULD use a similar connection URI with the same Charging Station identifier. To the CSMS, the connection
from the Local Controller appears to be a regular Charging Station connection.
The Local Controller may open a separate WebSocket connection to the CSMS that allows the CSMS to address the Local
Controller directly, which may be useful for changing settings or setting overall Charging Profiles.
When a Charging Station connects to the Local Controller, it SHALL connect to it like it would to a CSMS, using the same URI Path
in the connection URL as it would use to connect to the CSMS. When the connection between Charging Station and the CSMS is
successfully set up, the Local Controller SHALL set up a WebSocket connection to the CSMS with the same URI Path in the
connection URL that was used by the Charging Station to setup the connection. The Local Controller SHALL open a WebSocket
connection for every Charging Station that connects to it.
Edition 2, 2025-12-03
OCPP 2.1 Edition 2 - © Open Charge Alliance 2025 20/28 Part 4 - JSON over WebSockets implementation guide