MODBUS Messaging on TCP/IP Implementation Guide V1.0b 
October 24, 2006 http://www.Modbus.org 10/46
4.2 TCP CONNECTION MANAGEMENT 
4.2.1 Connections management Module  
4.2.1.1 General description 
A MODBUS communication requires the establishment of a TCP connection between a 
Client and a Server.  
The establishment of the connection can be activated either explicitly by the User 
Application module or automatically by the TCP connection management module.  
In the first case an application-programming interface has to be provided in the user 
application module to manage completely the connection. 
This solution provides 
flexibility for the application programmer but it  requires a good expertise on TCP/IP 
mechanism. 
In the second case the TCP connection management is completely hidden to the user 
application that only sends and receives MODBUS messages. The TCP connection 
management module is in charge to estab lish a new TCP connection when it is 
required.  
The definition of the number of TCP client and server connections is not on the scope of 
this document (value n in this document).  Depending on the device 
capacities the 
number of TCP connections can be different. 
Implementation Rules : 
1) Without explicit user requirement, it is recommended to implement the automatic TCP
connection management
2) It is recommended to keep the TCP connection opened with a remote device and not
to open and close  it for each MODBUS/TCP transaction,
Remark: However the MODBUS client must be capable of accepting a close request
from 
the server and closing the connection. The connection can be reopened when
required.
3) It is recommended for a MODBUS Client to open a minimum of TCP connections with
a remote MODBUS server (with the same IP  address). One connection per application
could be a good choice.
4) Several MODBUS transactions can be ac tivated simultaneously on the same TCP
Connection.
Remark: If this is done then the MODBUS tr ansaction identifier must be used to
uniquely identify the matching requests and responses.
5) In case of a bi-directional communication between two remote MODBUS entities (
each of them is client and server), it is necessary to open separate connections for
the client data flow and for the server data flow.
6) A TCP frame must transport only one MODBUS ADU. It is advised against sending
multiple MODBUS requests or responses on the same TCP PDU
Modbus Organization  