MODBUS Messaging on TCP/IP Implementation Guide V1.0b 
Network AccessNetwork Access
Ethernet II and 802.3 layerEthernet II and 802.3 layer
  MsgMsg
TCPTCP
ModbusModbus
IPIP
ICMPICMP
ARPARP
The goal of this section is to give 
an overview of the Stack interface 
and also some information 
concerning the parameterization of 
the stack. This overview focuses 
on the features used by the 
MODBUS Messaging.  
For more information, the advice is to read the RFC 1122 that provides guidance for 
vendors and designers of Internet communication software. It enumerates standard 
protocols that a host connected to the Internet  must use as well as an explicit set of 
requirements and options. 
The stack interface is generally based on the BSD (Berkeley Software Distribution) 
Interface that is described in this document. 
.  
4.3.1 Use of BSD Socket interface 
Remark : some TCP/IP stacks propose othe r types of interfaces for perform ance 
issues. A MODBUS client or server can use these specific interfac es, but this use will 
be not described in this specification. 
A socket is an endpoint of communication. It is the basic building block for 
communication. A MODBUS communication is executed by sending and receiving data 
through sockets. The TCPIP 
library provid es only stream sockets using TCP and 
providing a connection-based communication service. 
The Sockets are created via the socket ()  func tion. A socket number is returned, which 
is then used by the creator to access the socket. Sockets are created without 
addresses (IP address and port number). Until a port is bound to a socket, it cannot be 
used to receive data.   
The bind ()  function is used to bind a port number to a socket. The bind () creates an 
association between the socket and the port number specified.  
In order to initiate a connection, the client must issue the connect ()  function specifying 
the 
socket number, the remote IP address and the remote listening port number (active 
connection establishment). 
In order to complete a connection, the server must issue the accept ()  func tion 
specifying the socket number that was specified in the prior listen () call (passive 
connection establishment). A new socket is cr eated with the same properties as the 
initial one. This new socket is connected to the client’s socket, and its number is 
returned to the server. The initial socket is thereby free for other clients that might want 
to connect with the server. 
After the establishment of the TCP connec tion the data can be transferred. The send()  
and recv() functions are designed specifically to be  used with sockets that are already 
connected. 
The setsockopt ()  f unction allows a socket’s creator to associate options with a socket. 
These options modify the behavior of the so cket. The description of these options is 
given in the section 4.3.2. 
The select ()  func tion allows  the programmer to test events on all sockets. 
October 24, 2006 http://www.Modbus.org 15/46
Modbus Organization  