MODBUS Messaging on TCP/IP Implementation Guide V1.0b 
October 24, 2006 http://www.Modbus.org 18/46
4.3.2 TCP  layer parameterization 
Some parameters of the TCP/IP stack can be adjusted to adapt its behavior to the 
product or system constraints. The following parameters can be adjusted in the TCP 
layer: 
• Parameters for each connection:
SO-RCVBUF, SO-SNDBUF:  
These parameters allow setting the high water mark for the Send and the Receive 
Socket. They can be adjusted for flow control management. The 
size of the received 
buffer is the maximum size advertised window for that connection. Socket buffer sizes 
must be increased in order to increase performances. Nevertheless these values must 
be smaller than internal driver resources in order to close the TCP window before 
exhausting internal driver resources.  
The received buffer size depends on the TCP Windows size, the TCP Maximum 
segment size and the time needed to absorb the incoming frames. 
With a Maximum 
Segment Size of 300 bytes (a MODBUS requ est needs a maximum of 256 bytes + the 
MBAP header size), if we need 3 frames buffering, the socket buffer size value can be 
adjusted to 900 bytes. For biggest needs and best-scheduled time, the size of the TCP 
window may be increased.  
TCP-NODELAY:  
Small packets (called tinygrams) are normally not a problem on LANs, since most LANs 
are not congested, but these tinygrams can lead to congestion on wide 
area networks. 
A simple solution, called the "NAGLE algorithm" , is to collect small amounts of data and 
sends them in a single segment when TC P acknowledgments of previous packets 
arrive.  
In order to have better real-time behavior it is recommended to send small amounts of 
data directly without trying to gather them in a single segment. That is why it is 
recommended to force the TCP-NODELAY option  that disables the 
"NAGLE algorithm" 
on client and server connections.  
SO-REUSEADDR:  
When a MODBUS server closes a TCP connec tion initialized by a remote client, the 
local port number used for this connection cannot be reused for a new 
opening while 
that connection stays in the "Time-wait " state (during two MSL : Maximum Segment 
Lifetime). 
It is recommended specifying the SO-REUSEADDR option for each client and server 
connection to bypass this restriction. This op tion allows the process to assign itself a 
port number that is part of a connection that is in the 2MSL wait 
for client and listening 
socket. 
SO-KEEPALIVE:  
By default on TCP/IP protocol no data ar e sent across an idle TCP connection. 
Therefore if no process at the ends of a TC P connection is 
sending data to the other, 
nothing is exchanged between the two TCP modules. This assumes that either the 
client application or the server application uses  timers to detect inactivity in order to 
close a connection. 
It is recommended to enable the KEEPALIVE option on both client and server 
connection in order to poll the other end to know if the distant has either crashed and 
is 
down or crashed and rebooted. 
Nevertheless we must keep on mind that enabling KEEPALIVE can cause perfectly 
good connections to be dropped during transient failures, that it consumes unnecessary 
bandwidth on the network if the keep alive timer is too short. 
Modbus Organization  