MODBUS Messaging on TCP/IP Implementation Guide V1.0b 
October 24, 2006 http://www.Modbus.org 23/46
Function Code (*) 1 0x03 
Starting Address 2 0x0004 
MODBUS 
request 
Quantity of Registers 2 0x0001 
(*) please see the MODBUS Applic ation Protocol Specification [1]. 
• Transaction Identifier
The transaction identifier is used to associate the future response with the request.
So, at a time, on a TCP connection, this identifier must be unique. There are
several manners to use the transaction identifier:
- For example, it can be used as a simple "TCP sequence number" with a
counter which is incremented at each request.
- It can also be judiciously used as a sm art index or pointer to identify a
transac
tion context in order to memorize the current remote server and the
pending MODBUS request.
Normally, on MODBUS serial line a client mu st send one request at a time. This means 
that the client must wait for the answer to the first request before sending a second 
request. On TCP/MODBUS, several requests can be sent without waiting for a 
confirmation to the same server.  The MODB US/TCP to MODBUS serial line gateway is 
in charge of ensuring compatibility between these two behaviors.   
The number of requests accepted by a serv er depends on its capacity in term of 
number of resources and size of the TCP wi ndows. In the same way the number of 
transactions initialized simultaneously by a cli ent depends also on its resource capacity. 
This implementation parameter is called " NumberMaxOfClientTransaction " and must 
be described as one of the MODBUS client fe atures. Depending of the device type this 
parameter can take a value from 1 to 16.  
• Unit Identifier
This field is used for routing purpose when addressing a device on a MODBUS+
or MODBUS se
rial line sub-network. In that case, the “Unit Identifier” carries the 
MODBUS slave address of the remote device: 
If the MODBUS server is connected to a MODBUS+ or MODBUS Serial Line 
sub-network and 
addressed through a bridge or a gateway, the MODBUS Unit 
identifier is necessary to identify th e slave device connected on the sub-
network behind the bridge or the gateway. The destination IP address 
identifies the bridge itself and the bridge  uses the MODBUS Unit identifier to 
forward the request to the right slave device. 
The MODBUS slave device addresses on serial line are assigned from 1 to 
247 (decimal). Address 0 is used as broadcast address. 
On TCP/IP, the MODBUS 
server is addresse d using its IP address; therefore, the 
MODBUS Unit Identifier is useless.  The value 0xFF has to be used. 
When addressing a MODBUS server connec ted directly to a TCP/IP network, 
it’s recommended not using a significant MODBUS 
slave address in the “Unit 
Identifier” field. In the event of a re-allo cation of the IP addresses within an 
automated system and if a IP address previously assigned to a MODBUS 
server is then assigned to a gateway, using a significant slave address may 
cause trouble because of a bad routing by the gateway. Using a non-
significant slave address, the gateway will simply discard the MODBUS PDU 
with no trouble. 0xFF is recommended for the “Unit Identifier" as non-
significant value. 
Remark : The value 0 is also accepted to communicate directly to a 
MODBUS/TCP device . 
Modbus Organization  