PAGE 64
System integration Proline Prowirl O 200 PROFIBUS PA
64 Endress+Hauser
Manual setting
The manual setting is made in the Ident number selector parameter via the option
Prowirl 72 (0x153B) or Prowirl 73 (0x153C).
Afterwards, the Prowirl 200 PROFIBUS PA makes the same input and output data and
measured status information available for cyclic data exchange.
• If the Prowirl 200 PROFIBUS PA is acyclically configured via an operating program
(Class 2 master), access is directly via the block structure or the parameters of the
measuring device.
• If parameters have been changed in the device to be replaced (Prowirl 72 PROFIBUS
PA or Prowirl 73 PROFIBUS PA) (parameter setting no longer corresponds to the
original factory setting), these parameters must be changed accordingly in the new
replacement Prowirl 200 PROFIBUS PA via an operating program (Class 2 master).
Example
The setting for low flow cut off has been changed from mass flow (factory setting)
to corrected volume flow in a Prowirl 72 PROFIBUS PA currently in operation. This
device is now replaced by a Prowirl 200 PROFIBUS PA device. After replacing the
device, the assignment for the low flow cut off must be changed manually in the
Prowirl 200 PROFIBUS, i.e. to corrected volume flow, to ensure the measuring
device behaves identically.
Replacing the measuring devices without changing the GSD file or restarting the
controller
In the procedure described below, the device can be replaced without interrupting ongoing
operation or restarting the controller. However with this procedure the measuring device is
not fully integrated!
1. Replace the measuring device Prowirl 72 or 73 PROFIBUS PA by a Prowirl 200
PROFIBUS PA device.
2. Set the device address: The same device address that was set for the Prowirl 72,
Prowirl 73 or PROFIBUS PA Profile GSD must be used.
3. Connect the Prowirl 200 PROFIBUS PA.
If the factory setting had been changed on the replaced device (Prowirl 72 or Prowirl 73),
the following settings may need to be changed:
1. Configuration of the application-specific parameters.
2. Choice of process variables to be transmitted via the CHANNEL parameter in the
Analog Input or Totalizer function block.
3. Setting of the units for the process variables.
9.3  Cyclic data transmission 
Cyclic data transmission when using the device master file (GSD).
9.3.1  Block model
The block model shows which input and output data the measuring device makes available
for cyclic data exchange. Cyclic data exchange takes place with a PROFIBUS master (Class
1), e.g. a control system.
Measuring device Control system
Transducer
Block
Analog Input block 1  to  4 →   65 Output value AI →
PROFIBUS PA
Totalizer block 1  to  3 →   66
Output value TOTAL →
Controller SETTOT ←
PAGE 65
Proline Prowirl O 200 PROFIBUS PA System integration
Endress+Hauser 65
Configuration MODETOT ←
Analog Output block 1 →   68 Input values AO ←
Discrete Input block 1  to  2 →   69 Output values DI →
Discrete Output block 1  to
 3
→   69 Input values DO ←
Defined order of modules
The measuring device works as a modular PROFIBUS slave. In contrast to a compact slave,
a modular slave has a variable design and consists of several individual modules. The
device master file (GSD) contains a description of the individual modules (input and output
data) along with their individual properties.
The modules are permanently assigned to the slots, i.e. when configuring the modules, the
order and the arrangement of the modules must be respected.
Slot Module Function block
1 … 4 AI Analog Input block 1  to  4
5 TOTAL or
SETTOT_TOTAL or
SETOT_MODETOT_TOTAL
Totalizer block 1
6 Totalizer block 2
7 Totalizer block 3
8 AO Analog Output block 1
9 … 10 DI Discrete Input block 1  to  2
11 … 13 DO Discrete Output block 1  to  3
To optimize the data throughput rate of the PROFIBUS network, it is advisable to only
configure modules that are processed in the PROFIBUS master system. If this results in
gaps between the configured modules, these gaps must be assigned to the
EMPTY_MODULE.
9.3.2  Description of the modules
The data structure is described from the perspective of the PROFIBUS master:
• Input data: Are sent from the measuring device to the PROFIBUS master.
• Output data: Are sent from the PROFIBUS master to the measuring device.
AI module (Analog Input)
Transmit an input variable from the measuring device to the PROFIBUS master (Class 1).
The selected input variable, along with the status, is cyclically transmitted to the
PROFIBUS Master (Class 1) via the AI module. The input variable is depicted in the first
four bytes in the form of a floating point number as per the IEEE 754 standard. The fifth
byte contains standardized status information pertaining to the input variable.
Four Analog Input blocks are available (slot 1  to  4).
Selection: input variable
The input variable can be determined using the Channel parameter.
Channel Input variable
7 Temperature
9 Volume flow
11 Mass flow
PAGE 66
System integration Proline Prowirl O 200 PROFIBUS PA
66 Endress+Hauser
Channel Input variable
13 Corrected volume flow
14 Density
22 Pressure
37 Flow velocity
38 Energy flow
45 Calculated saturated steam pressure
46 Total mass flow
49 Heat flow difference
50 Reynolds number
51 Specific volume
52 Degree of overheating
Factory setting
Function block Factory setting
AI 1 Volume flow
AI 2 Mass flow
AI 3 Corrected volume flow
AI 4 Density
Data structure
Input data of Analog Input
Byte 1 Byte 2 Byte 3 Byte 4 Byte 5
Measured value: floating point number (IEEE 754) Status
TOTAL module
Transmit a totalizer value from the measuring device to the PROFIBUS master (Class 1).
A selected totalizer value, along with the status, is cyclically transmitted to a PROFIBUS
Master (Class 1) via the TOTAL module. The totalizer value is depicted in the first four
bytes in the form of a floating point number as per the IEEE 754 standard. The fifth byte
contains standardized status information pertaining to the totalizer value.
Three Totalizer blocks are available (slot 5  to  7).
Selection: totalizer value
The totalizer value can be specified using the CHANNEL parameter.
Channel Input variable
9 Volume flow
11 Mass flow
13 Corrected volume flow
38 Energy flow
46 Total mass flow
47 Condensate mass flow
49 Heat flow difference
PAGE 67
Proline Prowirl O 200 PROFIBUS PA System integration
Endress+Hauser 67
Factory setting
Function block Factory setting: TOTAL
Totalizer 1, 2 and 3 Volume flow
Data structure
Input data of TOTAL
Byte 1 Byte 2 Byte 3 Byte 4 Byte 5
Measured value: floating point number (IEEE 754) Status
SETTOT_TOTAL module
The module combination consists of the SETTOT and TOTAL functions:
• SETTOT: Control the totalizers via the PROFIBUS master.
• TOTAL: Transmit totalizer value, along with the status, to the PROFIBUS master.
Three Totalizer blocks are available (slot 5  to  7).
Selection: control totalizer
Channel Value SETTOT Control totalizer
0 0 Totalize
1 1 Resetting
2 2 Adopt totalizer initial setting
Factory setting
Function block Factory setting: Value SETTOT (meaning)
Totalizer 1, 2 and 3 0 (totalizing)
Data structure
Output data of SETTOT
Byte 1
Control variable 1
Input data of TOTAL
Byte 1 Byte 2 Byte 3 Byte 4 Byte 5
Measured value: floating point number (IEEE 754) Status
SETTOT_MODETOT_TOTAL module
The module combination consists of the SETTOT, MODETOT and TOTAL functions:
• SETTOT: Control the totalizers via the PROFIBUS master.
• MODETOT: Configure the totalizers via the PROFIBUS master.
• TOTAL: Transmit totalizer value, along with the status, to the PROFIBUS master.
Three Totalizer blocks are available (slot 5  to  7).
PAGE 68
System integration Proline Prowirl O 200 PROFIBUS PA
68 Endress+Hauser
Selection: totalizer configuration
Channel MODETOT value Totalizer configuration
0 0 Balancing
1 1 Balance the positive flow
2 2 Balance the negative flow
3 3 Stop totalizing
Factory setting
Function block Factory setting: Value MODETOT (meaning)
Totalizer 1, 2 and 3 0 (balancing)
Data structure
Output data of SETTOT and MODETOT
Byte 1 Byte 2
Control variable 1: SETTOT Control variable 2: MODETOT
Input data of TOTAL
Byte 1 Byte 2 Byte 3 Byte 4 Byte 5
Measured value: floating point number (IEEE 754) Status
AO module (Analog Output)
Transmit a compensation value from the PROFIBUS master (Class 1) to the measuring
device.
A compensation value, along with the status, is cyclically transmitted from the PROFIBUS
Master (Class 1) to the measuring device via the AO module. The compensation value is
depicted in the first four bytes in the form of a floating point number as per the IEEE 754
standard. The fifth byte contains standardized status information pertaining to the
compensation value.
One Analog Output block is available (slot 8).
Assigned compensation values
A compensation value is permanently assigned to the individual Analog Output blocks.
CHANNEL Function block Compensation value
1507 AO 1 External compensation 1)
1) The compensation values must be transmitted to the device in the SI basic unit
The selection is made via: Expert → Sensor → External compensation
Data structure
Output data of Analog Output
Byte 1 Byte 2 Byte 3 Byte 4 Byte 5
Measured value: floating point number (IEEE 754) Status
PAGE 69
Proline Prowirl O 200 PROFIBUS PA System integration
Endress+Hauser 69
DI module (Discrete Input)
Transmit discrete input values from the measuring device to the PROFIBUS master (Class
1). Discrete input values are used by the measuring device to transmit the state of device
functions to the PROFIBUS master (Class 1).
The DI module cyclically transmits the discrete input value, along with the status, to the
PROFIBUS Master (Class 1). The discrete input value is depicted in the first byte. The
second byte contains standardized status information pertaining to the input value.
Two Discrete Input blocks are available (slot 9 to 10).
Selection: device function
The device function can be specified using the CHANNEL parameter.
CHANNEL Device function Factory setting: Status (meaning)
893 Switch output state
• 0 (device function not active)
• 1 (device function active)895 Low flow cut off
1430 Status verification 1)
1) Only available with the "Heartbeat Verification" application package
Function block Factory setting
DI 1 Switch output state
DI 2 Low flow cut off
Data structure
Input data of Discrete Input
Byte 1 Byte 2
Discrete Status
DO module (Discrete Output)
Transmit discrete output values from the PROFIBUS master (Class 1) to the measuring
device. Discrete output values are used by the PROFIBUS master (Class 1) to enable and
disable device functions.
The DO module cyclically transmits the discrete output value, along with the status, to the
measuring device. The discrete output value is depicted in the first byte. The second byte
contains standardized status information pertaining to the output value.
Three Discrete Output blocks are available (slot 11 to 13).
Assigned device functions
A device function is permanently assigned to the individual Discrete Output blocks.
CHANNEL Function block Device function Values: control (meaning)
891 DO 1 Flow override • 0 (disable device function)
• 1 (enable device function)1429 DO 2 Start verification 1)
1) Only available with the Heartbeat Verification application package
PAGE 70
System integration Proline Prowirl O 200 PROFIBUS PA
70 Endress+Hauser
Data structure
Output data of Discrete Output
Byte 1 Byte 2
Discrete Status
EMPTY_MODULE module
This module is used to assign empty spaces arising from modules not being used in the
slots .
The measuring device works as a modular PROFIBUS slave. In contrast to a compact slave,
a modular PROFIBUS slave has a variable design and consists of several individual
modules. The GSD file contains a description of the individual modules along with their
individual properties.
The modules are permanently assigned to the slots. When configuring the modules, it is
absolutely essential to observe the sequence/arrangement of the modules. Any gaps
between the configured modules must be filled with the EMPTY_MODULE.
PAGE 198
Technical data Proline Prowirl O 200 PROFIBUS PA
198 Endress+Hauser
Number of switching
cycles
Unlimited
Assignable functions • Off
• On
• Diagnostic behavior
• Limit value
• Volume flow
• Corrected volume flow
• Mass flow
• Flow velocity
• Temperature
• Calculated saturated steam pressure
• Total mass flow
• Energy flow
• Heat flow difference
• Pressure
• Reynolds number
• Totalizer 1-3
• Status
• Status of low flow cut off
PROFIBUS PA
PROFIBUS PA In accordance with EN 50170 Volume 2, IEC 61158-2 (MBP), galvanically
isolated
Data transmission 31.25 kbit/s
Current consumption 16 mA
Permitted supply voltage 9 to 32 V
Bus connection With integrated reverse polarity protection
Signal on alarm Depending on the interface, failure information is displayed as follows:
Pulse/frequency/switch output
Pulse output
Failure mode No pulses
Frequency output
Failure mode Choose from:
• Actual value
• 0 Hz
• Definable value between: 0 to 1 250 Hz
Switch output
Failure mode Choose from:
• Current status
• Open
• Closed
PROFIBUS PA
Status and alarm
messages
Diagnostics in accordance with PROFIBUS PA Profile 3.02
Failure current FDE (Fault
Disconnection Electronic)
0 mA
PAGE 199
Proline Prowirl O 200 PROFIBUS PA Technical data
Endress+Hauser 199
Local display
Plain text display With information on cause and remedial measures
Backlight Additionally for device version with SD03 local display: red lighting indicates a
device error.
Status signal as per NAMUR recommendation NE 107
Interface/protocol
• Via digital communication:
PROFIBUS PA
• Via service interface
Endress+Hauser Common Data Interface (CDI)
Plain text display With information on cause and remedial measures
Low flow cut off The switch points for low flow cut off are preset and can be configured.
Galvanic isolation All inputs and outputs are galvanically isolated from one another.
Protocol-specific data Manufacturer ID 0x11
Ident number 0x1564
Profile version 3.02
Device description files (GSD,
DTM, DD)
Information and files at:
• www.endress.com → Download Area
• https://www.profibus.com
Supported functions • Identification & Maintenance
Simple device identification via control system and nameplate
• PROFIBUS upload/download
Reading and writing parameters is up to ten times faster with PROFIBUS
upload/download
• Condensed Status
Simplest and self-explanatory diagnostic information by categorizing
diagnostic messages that occur
Configuration of the device
address
• DIP switches on the I/O electronics module
• Local display
• Via operating tools (e.g. FieldCare)
System integration For information on system integration, see →   64
• Cyclic data transmission
• Block model
• Description of the modules
16.5  Power supply
Terminal assignment →   32
Available device plugs →   32
PAGE 200
Technical data Proline Prowirl O 200 PROFIBUS PA
200 Endress+Hauser
Supply voltage Transmitter
An external power supply is required for each output.
The following supply voltage values apply for the outputs available:
Supply voltage for a compact version without a local display 1)
Order code for "Output; input" Minimum
terminal voltage 2)
Maximum
Terminal voltage
Option G: PROFIBUS PA, pulse/frequency/
switch output ≥ DC 9 V DC 32 V
1) In event of external supply voltage of the PROFIBUS DP/PA coupler
2) The minimum terminal voltage increases if local operation is used: see the following table
Increase of minimum terminal voltage with local operation
Order code for "Display; operation" Increase in minimum
Terminal voltage
Option C:
Local operation SD02 + DC 1 V
Option E:
Local operation SD03 with lighting
(backlighting not used)
+ DC 1 V
Option E:
Local operation SD03 with lighting
(backlighting used)
+ DC 3 V
Power consumption Transmitter
Order code for "Output; input" Maximum power consumption
Option G: PROFIBUS PA, pulse/frequency/
switch output
• Operation with output 1: 512 mW
• Operation with output 1 and 2: 2 512 mW
Current consumption 20 to 55.56 mA
Power supply failure • Totalizers stop at the last value measured.
• Depending on the device version, the configuration is retained in the device memory or
in the pluggable data memory (HistoROM DAT).
• Error messages (incl. total operated hours) are stored.
Electrical connection →   35
Potential equalization →   41
Terminals • For device version without integrated overvoltage protection: plug-in spring terminals
for wire cross-sections 0.5 to 2.5 mm2 (20 to 14 AWG)
• For device version with integrated overvoltage protection: screw terminals for wire cross-
sections 0.2 to 2.5 mm2 (24 to 14 AWG)
Cable entries
 The type of cable entry available depends on the specific device version.
PAGE 201
Proline Prowirl O 200 PROFIBUS PA Technical data
Endress+Hauser 201
Cable gland (not for Ex d)
M20 × 1.5
Thread for cable entry
• NPT ½"
• G ½"
• M20 × 1.5
Cable specification →   30
Overvoltage protection The device can be ordered with integrated overvoltage protection:
Order code for "Accessory mounted", option NA "Overvoltage protection"
Input voltage range Values correspond to supply voltage specifications →   34 1)
Resistance per channel 2 ⋅ 0.5 Ω max.
DC sparkover voltage 400 to 700 V
Trip surge voltage < 800 V
Capacitance at 1 MHz < 1.5 pF
Nominal discharge current
(8/20 μs)
10 kA
Temperature range –40 to +85 °C (–40 to +185 °F)
1) The voltage is reduced by the amount of the internal resistance I min⋅ Ri
Depending on the temperature class, restrictions apply to the ambient temperature
for device versions with overvoltage protection .
For detailed information on the temperature tables, see the "Safety Instructions" (XA)
for the device.
16.6  Performance characteristics
Reference operating
conditions
• Error limits following ISO/DIN 11631
• +20 to +30 °C (+68 to +86 °F)
• 2 to 4 bar (29 to 58 psi)
• Calibration system traceable to national standards
• Calibration with the process connection corresponding to the particular standard
To obtain measured errors, use the Applicator sizing tool →   188
Maximum measurement
error
Base accuracy
o.r. = of reading
PAGE 37
Proline Prowirl O 200 PROFIBUS PA Electrical connection
Endress+Hauser 37
3. Connect the transmitter.
How the connecting cable is connected in the transmitter housing depends on the
measuring instrument approval and the version of the connecting cable used.
In the following versions, only terminals can be used for connection in the transmitter
housing:
• Order code for "Electrical connection", option B, C, D, 6
• Certain approvals: Ex nA, Ex ec, Ex tb and Division 1
• Use of reinforced connecting cable
In the following versions, an M12 device connector is used for connection in the
transmitter housing:
• All other approvals
• Use of connecting cable (standard)
Terminals are always used to connect the connecting cable in the sensor connection
housing (tightening torques for screws for cable strain relief: 1.2 to 1.7 Nm).
Connecting the sensor connection housing
3 mm
1.
2.
  A0034167
1. Loosen the securing clamp.
2. Unscrew the housing cover.
3.
4.
  A0034171
 10 Sample graphic
Connecting cable (standard, reinforced)
3. Guide the connecting cable through the cable entry and into the connection housing
(if using a connecting cable without an M12 device plug, use the shorter stripped end
of the connecting cable).
PAGE 38
Electrical connection Proline Prowirl O 200 PROFIBUS PA
38 Endress+Hauser
4. Wire the connecting cable:
 Terminal 1 = brown cable
Terminal 2 = white cable
Terminal 3 = yellow cable
Terminal 4 = green cable
5. Connect the cable shield via the cable strain relief.
6. Tighten the screws for the cable strain relief using a torque in the range of
1.2 to 1.7 Nm.
7. Reverse the removal procedure to reassemble the connection housing.
Connecting cable (option "mass pressure-/temperature-compensated")
3. Guide the connecting cable through the cable entry and into the connection housing
(if using a connecting cable without an M12 device plug, use the shorter stripped end
of the connecting cable).
4. Wire the connecting cable:
 Terminal 1 = brown cable
Terminal 2 = white cable
Terminal 3 = green cable
Terminal 4 = red cable
Terminal 5 = black cable
Terminal 6 = yellow cable
Terminal 7 = blue cable
5. Connect the cable shield via the cable strain relief.
6. Tighten the screws for the cable strain relief using a torque in the range of
1.2 to 1.7 Nm.
7. Reverse the removal procedure to reassemble the connection housing.
Connecting the transmitter
Connecting transmitter via plug
  A0034172
‣ Connect the plug.
PAGE 40
Electrical connection Proline Prowirl O 200 PROFIBUS PA
40 Endress+Hauser
7. NOTICE
The connection board of the wall housing is connected to the electronics board
of the transmitter via a signal cable!
‣ Pay attention to the signal cable when lifting the transmitter housing!
Lift the transmitter housing.
8.
  A0034176
 12 Sample graphic
9.
10.
  A0034177
 13 Sample graphic
Connecting cable (standard, reinforced)
8. Disconnect the signal cable from the connection board of the wall housing . by
pressing in the locking clip on the connector. Remove the transmitter housing.
9. Guide the connecting cable through the cable entry and into the connection housing
(if using a connecting cable without an M12 device plug, use the shorter stripped end
of the connecting cable).
10. Wire the connecting cable:
 Terminal 1 = brown cable
Terminal 2 = white cable
Terminal 3 = yellow cable
Terminal 4 = green cable
11. Connect the cable shield via the cable strain relief.
12. Tighten the screws for the cable strain relief using a torque in the range of
1.2 to 1.7 Nm.
13. Reverse the removal procedure to reassemble the transmitter housing.
PAGE 52
Operation options Proline Prowirl O 200 PROFIBUS PA
52 Endress+Hauser
8.3.5  Opening the context menu
Using the context menu, the user can call up the following menus quickly and directly from
the operational display:
• Setup
• Configuration backup display
• Simulation
Calling up and closing the context menu
The user is in the operational display.
1. Press the  and  keys for longer than 3 seconds.
 The context menu opens.
XXXXXXXXXX
Setup
Conf.backup disp
Simulation
Keylock on
  A0034284-EN
2. Press  +  simultaneously.
 The context menu is closed and the operational display appears.
Calling up the menu via the context menu
1. Open the context menu.
2. Press  to navigate to the desired menu.
3. Press  to confirm the selection.
 The selected menu opens.
PAGE 53
Proline Prowirl O 200 PROFIBUS PA Operation options
Endress+Hauser 53
8.3.6  Navigating and selecting from list
Different operating elements are used to navigate through the operating menu. The
navigation path is displayed on the left in the header. Icons are displayed in front of the
individual menus. These icons are also shown in the header during navigation.
For an explanation of the navigation view with symbols and operating elements
→   48
Example: Setting the number of displayed measured values to "2 values"
X X X X X X XX X
20.50
0104-1
2 s
0091-1
0098-1
0098-1
0098-1
X X X X X X XX X
10.50
2800
Hz
mA
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
1.
2. Display/operat.
Display/operat.
Setup
Main menu
English
Main menu
Format display
/ ../Display
Contrast display
Display intervall
1 value,  max.
Setup
Access stat.disp
/ ../Display/operat.
Display
Locking status
1 value, max.
/ ../Format display
2 values
Val. large+2val.
Bargr. + 1 value
Locking status
/ ../Display/operat.
Display
1 value, max.
/ ../Format display
2 values
Val. large+2val.
Bargr. + 1 value
Operator
Language
Language
  A0029562-EN
8.3.7  Calling the parameter directly
A parameter number is assigned to every parameter to be able to access a parameter
directly via the onsite display. Entering this access code in the Direct access parameter
calls up the desired parameter directly.
Navigation path
Expert → Direct access
PAGE 82
Commissioning Proline Prowirl O 200 PROFIBUS PA
82 Endress+Hauser
Navigation
"Setup" menu → Communication
‣ Communication
Device address →   82
Parameter overview with brief description
Parameter Description User entry Factory setting
Device address Enter device address. 0 to 126 126
10.4.7  Configuring the low flow cut off
The Low flow cut off wizard systematically guides the user through all the parameters
that must be set to configure low flow cut off.
Navigation
"Setup" menu → Low flow cut off
‣ Low flow cut off
Assign process variable →   83
On value low flow cutoff →   83
Off value low flow cutoff →   83
PAGE 83
Proline Prowirl O 200 PROFIBUS PA Commissioning
Endress+Hauser 83
Parameter overview with brief description
Parameter Prerequisite Description Selection / User
entry
Factory setting
Assign process variable – Select process variable for low
flow cut off.
• Off
• Volume flow
• Corrected volume
flow
• Mass flow
• Reynolds number *
Off
On value low flow cutoff One of the following options is
selected in the Assign process
variable parameter (→   83):
• Volume flow
• Corrected volume flow
• Mass flow
• Reynolds number *
Enter on value for low flow cut
off.
Positive floating-
point number
0
Off value low flow cutoff One of the following options is
selected in the Assign process
variable parameter (→   83):
• Volume flow
• Corrected volume flow
• Mass flow
• Reynolds number *
Enter off value for low flow cut
off.
0 to 100.0 % 50 %
* Visibility depends on order options or device settings