PAGE 1
PROFIBUS System Description
Technology and Application

PAGE 2

PAGE 3
PROFIBUS System Description I
Introduction 
Within the framework of ongoing dynamic 
development of industrial communication, 
automation engineering has also experienced 
continuous change. Automation was initially limited 
exclusively to production operations but has now 
for some time been integrated in a network that 
covers service and maintenance, warehousing, 
resource optimization and the provision of data for 
MES and ERP systems in addition to the actual task 
of automation.
Fieldbus technology was and still is a driving force 
for this process; it enabled the migration from 
centralized to decentralized automation systems 
and allows the use of distributed intelligence. 
Ethernet-based communication systems connect 
automation technology to information technology, 
thereby realizing consistent communication from 
the field level to the corporate management level. At 
the same time, they are increasingly also performing 
tasks directly in the field.
PROFIBUS and PROFINET are the standardized 
solutions for this from PROFIBUS & PROFINET 
International (PI) that combine full integration with 
high application orientation. With its standardized 
protocol, PROFIBUS encompasses all subprocesses 
found in factory and process automation, 
including safety-related communication and drive 
applications, thereby providing the ideal basis for 
horizontal integration in an automation system. With 
its similarly standardized protocol, PROFINET enables 
not only horizontal communication but also vertical 
communication and thus the connection from 
the field to the corporate management level. Both 
communication systems are the basis for solutions 
that are comprehensively networked, integrated, 
and optimized for the respective automation tasks.
Since its initial version in 1989, PROFIBUS rapidly 
developed into the world's leading fieldbus system for 
automation of machines and production equipment. 
Compared to other fieldbus systems, it is characterized 
above all by its extraordinary application breadth. 
Application-specific requirements were converted 
with the help of users into application profiles, and 
a standardized and open communication system 
combining all of these applications was produced. The 
use of open standards instead of proprietary solutions 
ensures long-term compatibility and expandability, 
which forms the basis for comprehensive investment 
protection for users and manufacturers alike. This is 
a very important concern for PROFIBUS & PROFINET 
International. Through worldwide support, a 
long-term perspective is offered to all users and 
members.
With well over 50 million devices (in the end of 2015), 
PROFIBUS is currently present in every branch of 
industrial automation. More than 10 million of these 
devices are used in process automation. PROFIBUS 
makes an important contribution to the economic 
and technological success of the companies involved.
PAGE 4
PROFIBUS System DescriptionII
Contents 
1 Introduction to PROFIBUS  . . . . . . . . 1
1.1 Market position ......................... 1
1.2 Modular design ......................... 2
1.3 Application-specific solutions ........... 2
1.4 Hybrid automation ...................... 3
1.5 OSI layer model as a basis ............... 3
1.6 Standardization ......................... 4
2 Transmission technology  . . . . . . . . . 4
2.1 Transmission as per RS485 and  
RS485-IS ................................ 4
2.2 Transmission as per MBP and MBP-IS .... 5
2.3 Optical transmission .................... 5
2.4 Wireless transmission .................... 6
2.5 Transmission technology in hazardous  
areas .................................... 6
2.6 Topology ................................ 7
2.7 Redundancy ............................ 8
2.8 Installation information for RS485 ....... 8
2.9 Installation information for MBP ......... 9
2.10 Bus diagnostic ......................... 9
3 Communication with PROFIBUS  . . 10
3.1 PROFIBUS DP communication protocol .. 10
3.2 Device classes ........................... 11
3.3 Cyclical communication and PROFIBUS 
diagnostics ............................. 11
3.4 Acyclical communication and parameter 
addressing .............................. 12
3.5 Standardized function blocks (FB) ....... 12
3.6 Comm FBs as a system-neutral interface 
with PROFIBUS .......................... 13
4 Application profiles  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
4.1 PROFIdrive .............................. 14
4.2 PROFIBUS PA (PA devices, "PA profile") ... 15
4.3 Improvements in PA profile V 3.02 ....... 15
4.4 HART on PROFIBUS ...................... 16
4.5 PROFIsafe ............................... 17
4.6 Identification & Maintenance (I&M) ...... 17
5 Device integration  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
5.1 General Station Description (GSD) ....... 18
5.2 Electronic Device Description (EDD) ..... 19
5.3 Device Type Manager (DTM) and Field 
Device Tool (FDT) interface .............. 19
5.4 Field Device Integration (FDI) ............ 19
6 Quality assurance and 
certification  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
7 Product implementation  . . . . . . . . . 22
7.1 Standard components .................. 23
7.2 Implementing transmission interfaces ... 24
8 Outlook  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
9 User benefits  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
9.1 Standardized and consistent ............ 26
9.2 Economy ................................ 26
9.3 Quality consciousness ................... 26
9.4 Innovation and protection of  
privileges  ............................... 26
9.5 Global support .......................... 27
9.6 Future cooperation ...................... 27
10 PROFIBUS & PROFINET  
International (PI)  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
10.1 Responsibilities of PI ................... 27
10.2 Technology development .............. 27
10.3 Technical support ...................... 27
10.4 Certification ........................... 28
10.5 Training ................................ 28
10.6 Internet ................................ 28
PAGE 5
PROFIBUS System Description III
List of figures 
Fig. 1:  PROFIBUS system building blocks . 2
Fig. 2:  PROFIBUS solutions for different 
market segments ................. 3
Fig. 3:  Consistent PROFIBUS solution in a 
single production system ......... 3
Fig. 4:  References between OSI model  
and PROFIBUS .................... 3
Fig. 5:  Utilization of different ignition 
protection types .................. 7
Fig. 6:  The connection of DP and PA 
segments ......................... 7
Fig. 7:  Various redundancy concepts ..... 8
Fig. 8:  Ring redundancy with  
PROFIBUS PA ..................... 8
Fig. 9:  PROFIBUS DP protocol,  
performance levels ............... 10
Fig. 10:  Cyclical and acyclical  
communication with DP-V1 ....... 11
Fig. 11:  The use of function blocks (Proxy FB 
and Comm FB) .................... 13
Fig. 12:  Device replacement with transfer  
of the predecessors' functions .... 15
Fig. 13:  Device replacement with transfer of 
the predecessors functions ....... 16
Fig. 14: Diagnostic mapping as per NAMUR 
recommendation 107 ............. 16
Fig. 15: Operating HART devices on 
PROFIBUS ......................... 17
Fig. 16: The principle of I&M functions .... 17
Fig. 17:  Technologies for device  
integration ....................... 18
Fig. 18:  Expense comparison for devices  
with profile GSD (on right) and  
4-20 mA interface (on left). ........ 18
Fig. 19:  FDI Device Package and FDI host .. 20
Fig. 20:  EDD-based part of an FDI Device 
Package in the FDI reference host . 20
 Fig. 21: User-programmed graphic  
elements ......................... 20
Fig. 22:  IDE development environment ... 21
Fig. 23:  Device certification,  
test procedure .................... 22
Fig. 24:  Stepwise introduction of  
PROFINET in the intrinsically  
safe field .......................... 25
Fig. 25:  PROFINET in the field with  
PROFIBUS PA integrated via a  
proxy ............................. 25
Fig. 26:  Assignment of the PROFINET  
device diagnostics to NE 107 ...... 26
Fig. 27:  PROFIBUS & PROFINET  
International (PI) .................. 27
List of tables
Tab. 1:  Overview of transmission values .. 4
Tab. 2:  Transmission values of RS485  
and MBP .......................... 5
Tab. 3:  Characteristics of MBP and MBP-IS 5
Tab. 4:  Supported fiberoptic cable types . 6
Tab. 5:  PROFIBUS application profiles ..... 14
PAGE 6
PROFIBUS System DescriptionIV
Information on contents
This system description deals with all the main 
aspects of PROFIBUS in 2016 without delving into 
technical details. In this regard it must also be 
noted that, despite the care taken in preparing this 
brochure, the normative PI (PROFIBUS & PROFINET 
International) documents alone are authoritative 
and binding. 
• Chapter 1 contains an introduction to PROFIBUS 
and provides an overview of its market position 
and technologies, modular design, and resulting 
application-specific solutions.
• Chapters 2 through 4  deal with the core 
technologies of PROFIBUS (transmission 
technology, communication, and application 
profiles) with technical and application-oriented 
information.
• Chapter 5  deals with the topic of device 
integration and explains the current 
technologies used here, including FDI.
• Chapter 6 deals with the topic of certification 
and quality assurance of PROFIBUS. 
• Chapter 7  contains information on product 
implementation.
• Chapter 8  provides an outlook on future 
solutions with PROFINET.
• Chapter 9  deals with the user benefits of 
PROFIBUS.
• Chapter 10 provides information on PROFIBUS 
& PROFINET International as the world's largest 
interest group for industrial automation with 
information on the organization, service 
offerings, and global positioning.
PAGE 7
PROFIBUS System Description 1
1 Introduction to PROFIBUS
Automation technology has been characterized by 
rapidly changing technology for many years. The 
driving force for this was and still is the pressure to 
lower production costs, the demand for high and 
consistent product quality, improved operating 
reliability and the availability and fl  exibility of the 
systems, especially the consistent fl  ow of data 
within a company. A visible sign of this change is 
the development of fi  eldbus technology with a 
transition from analog to digital communication and 
thus the possibility to exchange detailed information 
on the status of a production system and its 
environment very quickly. Digital communication 
also enables functions of the centralized controller 
to be relocated to decentralized fi  eld devices, which 
simplifi  es cabling considerably. The world-wide 
standardization of the interfaces opens up the 
path to consistent automation, and leaves previous 
solutions using a large number of proprietary 
systems behind.
PROFIBUS contributed considerably to the 
development of fi  eldbus technology. It links 
controllers and control systems with sensors and 
actuators on the fi  eld level (fi  eld devices) and also 
enables simultaneous consistent data exchange 
with superordinate systems. PROFIBUS is the 
fi  eldbus-based automation standard of PROFIBUS & 
PROFINET International (PI). PI has also developed the 
PROFINET Ethernet-based automation standard and 
launched it successfully on the market. PROFIBUS 
and PROFINET use identical device profi  les, thereby 
creating investment security and investment 
protection for the users and manufacturers of 
these technologies. Both systems cover the fi  elds of 
production and process automation and therefore 
also enable mixed (hybrid) applications, which are 
often seen in the pharmaceutical, food and beverage 
industries.
PROFIBUS consistency is based on the standardized 
"PROFIBUS DP" communication protocol, which 
supports a variety of applications in factory 
automation and process automation as well as 
motion control and safety-related tasks. This 
integration makes planning, installation and service 
easier. Training, documentation and maintenance 
need only be carried out for one technological 
aspect.
1 .1 Market position
The fi  rst fi  eldbus systems, which were proprietary, 
were introduced to the market in the 1980s. With 
the objective of far-reaching standardization, 21 
companies and institutes came together in 1987 to 
create a joint project with the task of developing and 
testing an open fi  eldbus standard. This project was 
the starting point for the development of PROFIBUS. 
After the joint project was complete, the PROFIBUS 
Nutzerorganisation e.V. (PNO) was founded in 1989 
in Germany to continue the work. This organization 
was comprised of 10 companies, four scientifi  c 
institutes and ZVEI. Two years later, it grew to over 
100 members, and today (2016) there are about 
1,400 members who have jointed together under 
the globally positioned PI fi  eldbus organization, 
which was founded in 1995. Today, there are more 
than 25 Regional PI Associations in countries on 
every continent. The common goal is the continuous 
development and global distribution of PROFIBUS 
and PROFINET technologies. With well over 50 
million devices installed in the fi  eld, PROFIBUS 
is a global market leader in the fi  eld of industrial 
communication systems.
Blast furnaces are operated without interruption 
and can only be modernized at long intervals. 
This makes especially future-proof automation 
technology all the more important. PROFIBUS 
has proven itself through and through in large-
scale projects like this.
The success of PROFIBUS relies equally on its 
advanced and robust technology and the successful 
activity of the PI organization established by 
manufacturers and users to represent their interests.
In addition to the many measures employed for 
technological development and its propagation, 
additional global support services for members 
(users and manufacturers) are available in the form 
of consulting, information and measures for quality 
assurance and standardization of the technology in 
international standards.
PAGE 8
PROFIBUS System Description2
PI forms the largest user group for industrial 
communication in the world, which offers 
opportunities for the future and at the same time 
comes with certain obligations. The opportunities 
are in the creation and propagation of market-
leading technologies which are beneficial to the 
user. The obligation is for those responsible for this 
user group to fully maintain PROFIBUS's goals of 
openness and investment protection in the future 
as well. This obligation serves as a guideline for 
everyone involved.
1 .2 Modular design 
PROFIBUS's module concept is what has allowed 
it to reach its top position in the global market. 
The communication protocol can be combined 
with a variety of application-specific technology 
modules which are compatible with one another 
(transmission technologies, application profiles, 
integration technologies). This ensures complete 
consistency with a large breadth of applications. 
With such a "system building block" (Figure 1), all 
the applications of automation technology can 
cover tasks in the production and process industries, 
including safety-related ones.
The core of the system building block is the PROFIBUS 
DP (Decentralized Peripherals) communication 
protocol, which is the same for all applications and 
is used for communication between centralized 
automation devices and decentralized field devices.
A number of different data transmission alternatives 
are available, depending on the usage case. RS485 
transmission technology is intended for use in the 
production industry and in the process industry 
in applications without explosion protection. 
RS485-IS (Intrinsically Safe) covers uses in explosion 
protected areas. The MBP (Manchester coded Bus 
Powered) and MBP-IS transmission technology is 
specifically oriented toward the process industry 
and also handles power supply to devices on the 
bus, in addition to data transmission. Several optical 
transmission technologies are also available.
PROFIBUS application profiles  are specified for 
standard data exchange between field devices on 
the user level. The use of such profiles guarantees 
interoperability in the data exchange between field 
devices from different manufacturers. These profiles 
specify application-typical device features, and 
"profile devices" must comply with them. They might 
be cross-device-class features (e.g. safety-relevant 
behavior) or device-class-specific features (e.g. to be 
exhibited by process devices or drives). Field devices 
with different application profiles can be operated in 
the same automation system. Simple devices with 
universal functionality, e.g. decentralized binary I/O 
devices, do not usually use application profiles.
Additionally to the layers for transmission and 
communication, the system building block also 
provides the required engineering technologies 
for device description and integration.
1 .3 Application-specific solutions
The system building block makes it possible to 
cover very different applications using "solutions" 
specifically arranged for them by combining the 
appropriate components. Examples include solutions 
for the production industry, process automation, 
Fig. 1: PROFIBUS system building blocks

PAGE 9
PROFIBUS System Description 3
drive engineering and safety-related systems. The 
structure of these modular "solutions" can be seen 
in Figure 2. Only the communication protocol is 
the same with all solutions and ensures the high 
consistency of PROFIBUS already mentioned.
Fig. 2: PROFIBUS solutions for different market 
segments
1 .4 Hybrid automation
In the past, factory automation and process 
automation had to be viewed as two strictly 
separate fields and automated using different 
technologies. The reason for this were the different 
marginal conditions of an automation system. 
Factory automation is based on fast, discrete 
processes and a relatively short service life of 
equipment. Process automation, on the other 
hand, is characterized by slow-running continuous 
operations and long equipment service life. Today, 
a user can avoid such insular solutions by using a 
PROFIBUS solution that is consistent for all the 
applications of the production chain. PROFIBUS is 
the only fieldbus that fulfills the requirements of 
such consistent (hybrid) automation of production-
control (inbound and outbound logistics) and 
process-control process steps (Figure 3).
Fig. 3: Consistent PROFIBUS solution in a single 
production system 
Examples
In the pharmaceutical industry, the manufacture 
of medicines is a process-control procedure. The 
packaging of tablets, for example, uses production-
control tasks with complex packaging machines, 
however.
In the food industry, at a brewery for example, 
the typical process-control procedures in the 
brew-house and fermenting cellar are followed by 
the production-control procedures of bottle cleaning 
and filling and the stacking of crates by robots.
In vehicle production, the paint shop, with its 
process-control requirements (explosion protection), 
is part of a production chain that otherwise involves 
production-control tasks.
1 .5 OSI layer model as a basis
The design of the technology modules with 
PROFIBUS is oriented toward the OSI layer model 
(Open Systems Interconnection Reference Model). 
Here, the communication process between two 
nodes is distributed over seven "layers" , from layer 1 
("physical layer" , trans-mission technology) to layer 
7 (“application layer” , interface to the application). 
PROFIBUS uses layers 1, 2 and 7 (Figure 4):
User program
7 Application Layer                          
6 Presentation Layer
5 Session Layer
4 Transport Layer
3 Network Layer
2 Data link Layer 
1 Physical Layer 
PROFIBUS DP Protocol                                                         
(DP-V0, DP-V1, DP-V2)
OSI implementation at PROFIBUS
Fieldbus Data Link (FDL):                             
Master Slave principle                     
Token principle 
Transmission technology
Application profiles 
OSI Layer Model
Not used
Fig. 4: References between OSI model and 
PROFIBUS
• Layer 1 defines the physical transmission. With 
PROFIBUS, there are copper-wire versions (RS485 
and MBP) and optical and wireless transmission.
• Layer 2 defines the description of the bus access 
method, including data security. With PROFIBUS, 
this is the master-slave method in conjunction 
with the token method.
• Layer 7 forms the interface to the application and 
thus represents the link between the application 
and communication. With PROFIBUS, the 
communication protocol PROFIBUS DP is used 
here.
• The actual application process lies above layer 7 
and is not part of the OSI model.
Figure 4 shows the definition of the seven OSI layers 
on the left and the implementation of PROFIBUS on 
the right.
PAGE 10
PROFIBUS System Description4
1 .6 Standardization
The contents of the OSI layers are specified by 
standards so that the openness of the system is 
ensured when the standards are complied with.
Together with other fieldbus systems, PROFIBUS 
is part of IEC 61158 ("Digital data communication 
for measurement and control – Fieldbus for use in 
industrial control systems") and IEC 61784 ("Profile 
sets for continuous and discrete manufacturing 
relative to fieldbus use in industrial control systems").
A clean water supply requires large investments 
in existing and new wastewater treatment 
plants. Maximum availability and optimal use 
of process technology are a prerequisite for this. 
For many planners and operators, PROFIBUS is 
the preferred solution (for example, in Europe's 
most modern wastewater treatment plant in 
Vienna).
IEC 61158
IEC 61158 deals with the technologies used 
and describes the method of functioning of the 
fieldbus. It is divided according to the OSI model. 
The individual fieldbuses are differentiated by 
the definition of "fieldbus protocol types" in this 
standard. Here, PROFIBUS is type 3 and PROFINET 
type 10.
IEC 61784
IEC 61784 defines the subsets of the service and 
protocol supersets specified in IEC 61158 (and other 
standards) which are used by a certain fieldbus 
system for its communication. They are collected 
in "Communication Profile Families (CPF)"; for 
PROFIBUS, it is "Family 3" with a subdivision into 3/1 
(RS485 and fiberoptics) and 3/2 (MBP). Part 3/3 is 
concerned with PROFINET.
2 Transmission technology
2 .1 Transmission as per RS485 and 
RS485-IS
The easy-to-use and cost-effective RS485 
transmission technology is preferred for use with 
tasks which require a high transmission speed, 
but which do not require explosion protection 
(intrinsic safety). It is widely used in the production 
industry and is also found in parts of the process 
Tab. 1: Overview of transmission values
RS485 RS485-IS MBP MBP-IS Fiber Optic
Data transmission
Digital; differential 
signals acc. to RS485, 
NRZ (no return to zero)
Digital; differential 
signals acc. to RS485, 
NRZ
Digital, bit-synchronous, 
Manchester coding
Digital, bit-synchronous, 
Manchester coding
Optical, digital, NRZ
Transmission rate 9.6 to 12,000 Kbit/s 9.6 to 15,000 Kbit/s 31.25 Kbit/s 31.25 Kbit/s 9.6 to 12,000 Kbit/s
Data security
HD=4; parity bit;         
start/end delimiter
HD=4; parity bit;   
start/end delimiter
Preamble; fail-safe 
start/end delimiter
Preamble; fail-safe 
start/end delimiter
HD=4; parity bit;             
start/end delimiter
Cable
Twisted, shielded two-
wire cable,              
cable type A
Twisted, shielded four-
wire cable, 
cable type A, acc. to 
IEC 61158 part 3/1
Twisted, shielded two-
wire cable,                 
cable type A
Twisted, shielded two-
wire cable,               
cable type A, acc. to IEC 
61158 part 3/2
Multi- and single mode 
glass fiber; PCF; plastic 
fiber 
Remote power 
supply
Possible using 
additional cores
Possible using additional 
cores
Optional using signal 
cores 
Optional using signal 
cores 
Possible using hybrid 
cable
Ignition 
protection types
Increased safety Ex e 
Flameproof 
encapsulation EX d
Intrinsic safety                        
Ex ib
Increased safety Ex e 
Flameproof 
encapsulation EX d
Intrinsic safety                       
Ex ia/ib
None
Topology
Line topology with 
termination
Line topology with 
termination
Line and tree topology 
with termination; also 
combined
Line and tree topology 
with termination; also 
combined
Star and ring topology 
typical; line topology 
possible
Number of 
nodes
Up to 32 nodes per 
segment. Max. total 
126 per network
Up to 32 nodes per 
segment. Max. total 126 
per network
Up to 32 nodes per 
segment. Max. total 126 
per network
Up to 32 nodes per 
segment. Max. total 126 
per network
Up to 126 nodes per 
network
Number of 
repeaters
Max. 9 with signal 
refreshing
Max. 9 with signal 
refreshing
Max. 4 with signal 
refreshing
Max. 4 with signal 
refreshing 
Unlimited with signal 
refreshing; note signal 
propagation delay
PAGE 11
PROFIBUS System Description 5
industry. A twisted, shielded copper cable with 
a pair of wires is used. The bus structure enables 
non-reactive coupling and decoupling of stations 
and incremental commissioning of the system. 
Subsequent system expansions do not affect 
stations already in operation within certain 
specified limits. Details can be found in Table 1 and 
Table 2.
Transmission rate 
[Kbit/s]
Transmission 
range per 
segment [m]
Applies to
9,6   19,2                 
45,45   93,75 1,2 RS485
187,5 1 RS485
500 400 RS485
1,5 200 RS485
3,000  6,000 12,000 100 RS485
PROFIBUS DP PROFIBUS PA
Wave resistance 135 ... 165 Ω 80 ... 120 Ω
Capacitance per unit ≤ 30 pf/m ≤ 2 pf/m
Loop resistance ≤ 110 Ω/km ≤ 44 Ω/km
Core diameter > 0.64 mm ≥ 1 mm
Core cross-section > 0,34 mm2 ≥ 0,8 mm2
The values above apply to cable type A with the following 
properties
Tab. 2: Transmission values of RS485 and MBP 
In compliance with certain values, the use of the 
RS485 interface with its high transmission rates is also 
possible in intrinsically-safe areas (RS485-IS). When 
the interface was specified, the levels for the current 
and voltage, which must be complied with by each 
individual node to ensure safe functioning when 
connected together, were defined. Within a circuit, 
certain maximum currents are permissible with a set 
voltage. When connecting active sources together, 
the total current of all the nodes may not exceed 
the maximum permissible current. The difference 
between this concept and the FISCO model (see 
2.5) with only one intrinsically-safe source is that all 
nodes represent active sources here.
2 .2 Transmission as per MBP and MBP-IS
MBP (Manchester Coded, Bus Powered) transmission 
technology implements the simultaneous supply 
of power to the connected field devices and 
communication of the data over a single cable, 
i.e. directly via the bus medium. This enables 
wiring overhead to be significantly reduced, meets 
requirements for much simpler and safer installation 
and boasts all the benefits of digital transmission 
down to the field device. MBP was specifically 
developed to meet the demands of process 
automation and is standardized in IEC 61158-2. 
Details can be found in Table 1 and Table 3.
Nodes in one segment Up to 32
Data transmission rate 31.25 Kbit/s
Min. working voltage per 
field device                                          9 V DC
Min. current consumption 10 mA
Transmission of digital 
communication signal
Zero-mean Manchester II 
coding (MBP) through 
± 9 mA amplitude 
Signal transmission and 
remote power supply Use of twisted-pair cable
Fieldbus cable Type A
Connection of field devices Via stubs (spur) to a main 
cable (trunk)
Max. total length of a segment Up to 1,900 m
  MBP transmission technology
Tab. 3: Characteristics of MBP and MBP-IS
In the MBP-IS version, this transmission technology 
is especially suitable for use in hazardous areas 
and is therefore widely used in applications of 
the chemical, oil and gas industries. Explosion 
protection is implemented via limiting power in 
the incoming bus supply or more frequently in the 
installation components in the field. Working on field 
devices during active operation is made possible, 
for example, by means of intrinsically safe ignition 
protection. The easiest way to be verified for intrinsic 
safety is to go through models such as FISCO or 
Entity. If all the components used conform with the 
standards, no further calculations are necessary.
2 .3 Optical transmission
There are fieldbus usage conditions under which 
wired transmission technology reaches its limits, for 
example in an environment with heavy interference 
or when bridging long distances. In these cases, 
optical transmission via fiberoptic cables is 
available. The corresponding PROFIBUS guideline 
specifies the technology available for this. When the 
specifications were being made, it was ensured that 
existing PROFIBUS devices could be integrated into 
a fiberoptic cable network without adverse affects. 
This ensures compatibility with existing PROFIBUS 
installations.
The supported fiberoptic cable fiber types are shown 
in Table 4. Due to the transmission characteristics, 
typical topology structures are the star and 
the ring; linear structures are also possible. The 
implementation of a fiberoptic cable network in 
the simplest case involves the use of electro-optical 
converters which are connected to the field device 
with the RS485 interface and the fiberoptic cable on 
the other side. This also makes it possible to switch 
PAGE 12
PROFIBUS System Description6
between RS485 and fiberoptic cable transmission 
within an automation system, depending on the 
prevalent conditions.
 Fiber type  Core diameter [µm]  Transmission range
 Multi-mode glass fiber  62.5 / 125  2 - 3 km
 Single-mode glass fiber  9 / 125  > 15 km
 Plastic fiber  980 / 1,000  Up to 100 m
 HCS® fiber  200 / 230  Approx. 500 m
Tab. 4: Supported fiberoptic cable types
2 .4 Wireless transmission
PROFIBUS is also used in wireless communication. 
Even if PI has not made any provisions in the form 
of specifications or guidelines, interoperability with 
wired systems is still ensured. This is supported by 
the many applications in use.
In PROFIBUS systems, solutions for the wireless 
connection of sensors and actuators are also 
possible. Corresponding guidelines which specify 
the integration of WirelessHART (used in process 
automation) and Wireless Sensor/Actuator Network 
(WSAN, used in factory automation) are in process.
2 .5 Transmission technology in 
hazardous areas
When operating fieldbuses in hazardous areas, 
the interface PROFIBUS MBP is the typical choice. 
Besides the IEC 61158-2 (fieldbus standard, Table 3), 
the more stringent explosion protection standard 
IEC 60079-11 (electrical equipment for hazardous 
areas) must be observed. Here two concepts are 
principally used: 
• The FISCO model (IEC 60079-27) enables the 
implementation of explosion protection, 
including regulatory approval without individual 
calculations. It is characterized, however, by a 
considerable low input power into a segment 
and thus by short cable length and low number 
of field devices. 
• The High-Power Trunk concept, whereby the 
limitations in power of FISCO are removed by 
using the ignition protection type increased 
safety. Intrinsic safety is applied where working 
on field devices is permitted also without “hot 
work permit” .
In certain cases, the RS485 interface in compliance 
with Ex e ignition protection type can also be used in 
the hazardous area. 
The FISCO model (IEC 60079-27)
The FISCO model (Fieldbus Intrinsically Safe 
Concept) makes it easy to plan, install and expand 
PROFIBUS networks in hazardous zones of type 1.  
This model is based on the specification that a 
communication network is intrinsically safe and does 
not require calculations for validating intrinsic safety 
if the relevant components, such as the field devices, 
cables, segment couplers and bus termination values 
conform to a set of limit values (for voltage, current, 
output, inductivity and capacity). Intrinsic safety is 
considered verified if all the components operated 
in the segment in question are certified as per FISCO. 
The following constraints have also be met: 
• Each segment only has one power supply source
• The total cable length is up to 1,000 m
FISCO ensures that:
• The field devices always act as passive sinks
• The permissible input values of each field device 
are greater than the possible and permissible 
output values of the associated supply unit if a 
fault were to occur.
The ignition protection type intrinsic safety Ex i (IEC 
60079) is the most often used protection type in 
measurement and control technology. It is based 
on the parameter of limiting current and voltage 
in intrinsically safe circuits to levels where neither 
thermal effects nor sparking could lead to the 
ignition of explosive mixtures. This is associated with 
a limitation of the supply current of a PA segment 
to 100 mA with corresponding limitations in cable 
length and the number of bus nodes.
The High-Power Trunk Concept
The "intrinsically safe" ignition protection type is 
only really required in a process control system 
where access is required for maintenance or device 
replacement during operation. In other areas, e.g. 
at the trunk cable, this requirement generally does 
not apply, which is why ignition protection type Ex 
e (increased safety) is applied there with the ability 
to transport more power. This enables longer cable 
length and increased number of field devices without 
obstructing operation. It is therefore possible to use 
a mixed concept comprised of protection types 
increased safety (Ex e) for the trunk and intrinsic 
safety (Ex i) at the spur, which can be implemented 
with devices called fieldbus barriers. The outputs of 
the field barriers are conventionally intrinsically safe 
for the connection of field devices. An overview of 
this can be found in Figure 5.
PAGE 13
PROFIBUS System Description 7
Fig. 5: Utilization of different ignition protection 
types
Likewise, in automation systems with hazardardous 
zone 2, the trunk is designed in the "non-sparking 
(Ex nA)" protection type and thus enables the 
introduction of high currents into zone 2. Due to the 
less stringent explosion protection requirements 
simple field distributors can be used here instead 
of field barriers. Field devices of protection type 
"energy limited" (Ex nL) can be connected to their 
short circuit-proof outputs of 40 mA output current 
each.
2 .6 Topology
If RS485 transmission technology is used, all field 
devices are typically connected in a line structure 
(see Figure 6) with up to 32 nodes (master and slaves) 
in one segment. The beginning and end of each 
segment are provided with active bus termination, 
which must be supplied with power continuously. 
The bus terminations are usually implemented as 
optionally activatable in the devices or plugs. If 
there are more than 32 nodes or the network span is 
being extended, repeaters must be used to link the 
networks.
Drive technology is required for every 
automation task: Whether it's moving, adjusting, 
positioning, conveying or storing, it all demands 
perfect communication between drives and the 
automation system. No technology in the world 
is used more than PROFIBUS here.
Fig. 6: The connection of DP and PA segments
If MBP transmission technology is used (in process 
automation), basically any topology is permissible. 
Linear and tree structures and combinations of 
both are thus possible. In practice, the "trunk & 
spur topology" (see Figure 6) has established itself 
as the de-facto standard, as it is especially clear 
and well-laid-out. Thanks to the technically-mature 
installation technologies available on the market, it 
also exhibits a high degree of robustness. The overall 
length of a segment may not exceed 1,900 meters, 
and the length of the stubs in intrinsically-safe 
applications is max. 60 m and must be taken into 
account when calculating the overall length.
Coupling RS485 and MBP transmission 
technology . The MBP transmission technology is 
typically limited to certain subsegments of a system, 
e.g. a group of field devices in a hazardous area. The 
connection of such subsegments (designated as 
MBP or PA segment or PA spur) to the RS485 segment 
(also designated as DP segment or DP spur) is carried 
out using segment couplers or links. They handle the 
following tasks:
• Implementation of the asynchronous signal 
encoding with RS485 into synchronous signal 
encoding with MBP
• Provision of incoming supply voltage for the 
PA segment and limiting of incoming current 
supply
• Decoupling of transmission speed
• Isolation and power limiting for hazardous areas 
(optional)
Segment couplers are transparent from the 
standpoint of the bus protocol, the devices of the 
MBP segment are directly visible on the DP side 
and the segment coupler itself does not require 
configuration. 
Links, on the other hand, are intelligent and map all 
devices connected in the MBP segment as a single 
slave in the RS485 segment. The link needs to be 
configured and restricts the total amount of data 
PAGE 14
PROFIBUS System Description8
which can be transferred to and from the connected 
devices to 244 bytes. The cyclical data from the PA 
devices is compressed into a single DP telegram on 
the DP side and must be reselected by the DP master. 
The faster DP segment enables a number of PA 
segments to be integrated into a single DP network 
via segment couplers or links.
2 .7 Redundancy
For applications which demand high system 
availability, such as with continuous processes, 
redundant systems are generally used, whereby the 
redundancy can extend to all system components. A 
differentiation is made between different concepts 
which can be combined with one another as desired 
and, in special cases, also contain complete spatial 
separations:
• Master redundancy:
The control system or the controller is designed 
redundantly (system redundancy, Figure 7, 
right)
• Media redundancy:
The cable paths are designed redundantly
• Coupler/link/gateway redundancy:
The segment couplers are designed redundantly 
(Figure 7) If a coupler fails, the other ones 
seamlessly take over its function. The master 
does not notice the switchover and no messages 
are lost.
Fig. 7: Various redundancy concepts
• Ring redundancy:
The combination of redundant couplers and field 
devices with active field distributors implements 
ring redundancy and creates expanded media 
redundancy. Subsegments which have become 
defective due to a short circuit or wire break are 
automatically and seamlessly operated further 
via a coupler each in a line structure (Figure 8).
Fig. 8: Ring redundancy with PROFIBUS PA
• Slave redundancy:
The field devices or the PROFIBUS connection 
in the field device are designed redundantly. 
Concepts for slave redundancy are described 
in the PROFIBUS specification titled “Slave 
Redundancy” . Field devices designed with 
redundancy need to be on an equal footing and 
determine between themselves which is to act 
as the primary node and which as the secondary 
node. Manufacturer-specific solutions are 
available for transmission media and master 
redundancy.
2 .8 Installation information for RS485
A number of different cable types (type designation 
A through D) for different use cases are available for 
the connection of devices to one another and to 
network elements (e.g. segment couplers, links and 
repeaters). If the RS485 transmission technology 
is used, cable type A (data in Table 2) is strongly 
recommended.
When connecting the nodes, ensure that the data 
cables are not mixed up. To achieve high interference 
resistance of the system against electromagnetic 
radiation, a shielded data cable (type A is shielded) 
should definitely be used. The shielding is to be 
connected to the protective ground on both sides 
ensuring good conductivity via large-area shield 
clamps. Equipotential bonding of all connected field 
devices is also recommended. Also ensure that the 
data cable is laid as far away from all high-current 
cables as possible. Stubs must absolutely be avoided 
with transmission rates greater than or equal to 
1.5 MBit/s. The number of nodes which can be 
connected to a segment is limited to 32. 
The plugs offered on the market enable incoming 
and outgoing data cables to be connected directly 
in the plug. This avoids stubs, and the bus plug can 
be connected to and disconnected from the bus at 
any time without interrupting the data traffic. The 
plug connectors suitable for RS485 transmission 
technology differ by protection type. In protection 
PAGE 15
PROFIBUS System Description 9
type IP 20, a 9-pin D-Sub plug connector is preferable 
for use. In protection type IP 65/67, different solutions 
are recommended as per the guideline:
• M12 round plug connector as per IEC 60947-5-2
• Han-Brid plug as per DESINA recommendation
• Hybrid plug connector
• 7/8" plug
The hybrid plug systems also include a variant for 
transmitting data over fiber-optic cable fibers and 
24 V operating voltage for the peripheral devices via 
copper cables in a single hybrid cable.
Experience shows that difficulties with the 
transmission technology in PROFIBUS networks can 
most often be traced back to improper cabling and 
installation. Bus test devices, which can ferret out 
many typical cabling errors before commissioning, 
can remedy this situation.
The reference addresses of the many different 
plugs, cables, repeaters and bus test devices can 
be obtained from the PROFIBUS product catalog  
(www.profibus.com).
2 .9 Installation information for MBP
The intrinsically safe MBP transmission technology 
is normally limited to certain subsegments (field 
devices in the hazardous area) of a system which are 
then linked to the RS485 segment (control system 
and engineering devices in the measuring station) 
via segment couplers or links.
As already mentioned, segment couplers are signal 
converters which adapt the RS485 signals to the 
MBP signal level and vice versa. They are transparent 
from the viewpoint of the bus protocol.
Links, on the other hand, are intelligent. They map 
all field devices connected in the MBP segment 
upwardly as a single slave in the RS485 segment; 
downwardly, it functions as a master. If links are 
used, the transmission rate in the RS485 segment is 
not influenced by the connected PA segments. This 
also allows fast networks to be implemented using 
field devices with an MBP connection for control 
tasks, for example.
A two-core shielded cable is used for the transmission 
medium. The important thing here is that different 
cables are involved for PROFIBUS DP (cable Type A 
according to IEC 61158 Part 2 Interface RS485(-IS)) 
and PROFIBUS PA (cable Type A according to IEC 
61158 Part 2 Interface MBP(-IS)). (See Table 2). The 
bus termination is already permanently integrated 
at the segment coupler or link. A field device using 
MBP technology which is connected with wrong 
polarity in most cases does not negatively affect the 
functionality of the bus, as these devices are normally 
equipped with automatic polarity detection.
A typically free of charge planning software 
should be used for segment design  
(www.segmentchecker.com ) Hereby the electrical 
function of a segment can be checked before 
installation work starts. Planning and checking 
steps comprise cable length and number of 
devices possible. This planning procedure 
protects the user from possible costly subsequent 
modifications of the installation.
The operation of bus-supplied and externally-
supplied devices together is permissible. Note that 
externally-supplied devices draw a base current 
via the bus connection, which must be taken into 
account accordingly when calculating the maximum 
available supply current.
2 .10 Bus diagnostic
Bus diagnostics enables the physical layer to 
be measured on a segment and field device 
specific basis and simplifies commissioning. Once 
installation is complete, the loop check is carried 
out at the push of a button using corresponding 
tools available on the market. Extensive expert 
knowledge about waveforms and possible causes 
are no longer required for commissioning.
Although simulated aging tests of installations 
did not show any relevant risks, there are other, 
substantive reasons for continuous monitoring of 
the physical layer itself. The most common cause 
of changes on a fieldbus installation are authorized 
interventions during maintenance or assembly 
operations, more so than unwanted changes due to 
environmental conditions. All important parameters 
affecting transmission quality are monitored using 
diagnostics tools to ensure that they remain within 
permissible limits.
By integrating bus diagnostics into the power supply 
technology, it becomes possible to monitor systems 
permanently rather than just sporadically, thereby 
facilitating the identification of errors which might 
otherwise slip through unnoticed during operation. 
This also makes it possible to detect changes on 
the physical layer and rectify errors which might 
cause the bus to fail. Bus diagnostics also make 
troubleshooting much easier, as maintenance 
personnel are provided with detailed information, 
often with information in plain text, about possible 
errors.
Notice: Explanations of field device diagnostics are 
found in Chapter 4 under "PA profile" .
PAGE 16
PROFIBUS System Description10
Manufacturers of fine chemicals must respond 
flexibly and quickly to customer orders and 
frequently adapt their systems accordingly. 
Thanks to its enormous flexibility, PROFIBUS 
offers the best prerequisite for this.
3 Communication with 
PROFIBUS
PROFIBUS devices communicate using the 
PROFIBUS DP (Decentralized Periphery) 
communication protocol, which is the same for all 
applications and which allows cyclical and acyclical 
communication and specifies rules for this. The core 
of the communication process is the master-slave 
method, where a master (active communication 
nodes: PLC, PC or control system) cyclically prompt 
the connected slaves (passive communication 
nodes: field devices, I/Os, drives) to exchange data. 
The polled slave answers the prompting master with 
a response message. A request message contains 
the output data, e.g. setpoint speed of a drive, and 
the associated response message contains the input 
data, e.g. the latest measured value from a sensor. A 
bus cycle comes to an end once all connected slaves 
have been polled in order.
In addition to this cyclical communication for the 
fast exchange of input and output data between the 
master and slaves at regular intervals, need-based 
data can also be transmitted using PROFIBUS, e.g. 
device setting data. A master has the initiative, 
accessing the data of a slave in read or write mode 
acyclically. There can be more than one master 
in a PROFIBUS system. In such a case, the access 
authorization passes from the active master to the 
next master (token-passing principle).
3 .1 PROFIBUS DP communication 
protocol
For optimum fulfillment of the requirements of 
different areas of use, the functions of the PROFIBUS 
DP communication protocol are distributed over 
three performance levels: DP-V0, DP-V1 and DP-V2 
(Figure 9).
Version DP-V0 provides the basic function of 
the communication protocol. This includes, in 
particular, cyclical communication and device-, 
module- and channel-specific diagnostics for quick 
fault localization. Examples of this include "excess 
temperature" and "short circuit on output" .
Fig. 9: PROFIBUS DP protocol, performance levels

PAGE 17
PROFIBUS System Description 11
Version DP-V1 supplements DP-V0 with functions for 
acyclical communication, i.e. for functions such as 
parameterization, operation, monitoring and alarm 
handling. DP-V1 enables online access to bus nodes 
via engineering tools for this purpose (Figure 10).
Version DP-V2 contains additional functions as 
extensions of DP-V1, in particular functions which 
are required for drive control. These include 
functions for communication between slaves, cycle 
synchronization and time stamping.
Field devices for process automation are typically 
slaves of performance level DP-V1 and can therefore 
communicate acyclically to set device parameters.
Fig. 10: Cyclical and acyclical communication 
with DP-V1
3 .2 Device classes
PROFIBUS devices are divided into three classes 
based on their functions:
PROFIBUS DP master (class 1)
A PROFIBUS DP master of class 1 (DPM1) is a master 
which uses cyclical communication to exchange 
process data with its associated slaves. Devices 
of this type are often integrated in a memory-
programmable controller or an automation station 
of the process control system.
PROFIBUS DP master (class 2)
A PROFIBUS DP master of class (DPM2) was originally 
defined as a master used as a tool in the context 
of PROFIBUS system commissioning. In the course 
of the DP-V1 and DP-V2 functional expansions, a 
DPM2 has been more specifically defined as a master 
which can be used to set device parameters via 
acyclical communication. Devices of this type are 
usually part of an engineering station used for device 
configuration. A DPM2 need not be permanently 
connected to the bus system.
PROFIBUS slave
A PROFIBUS slave is a passive communication node 
which reacts to prompts from the master by sending 
a response message. Devices in this class are usually 
field devices (remote I/O, drive, valve, transducer, 
analyzer) which acquire process variables or play 
a part in the process by means of manipulated 
variables. A differentiation is made between compact 
and modular slave devices. A modular device 
comprises a head station containing the fieldbus 
interface and a number of slots into which various 
modules can be inserted. By combining different 
modules, modular slaves can be adapted flexibly 
to respond to prevailing requirements with regard 
to input and output data. Compact devices have a 
fixed set of input and output data – comparable to 
a modular device with precisely one permanently 
installed module.
The majority of slave devices in process automation 
are modular devices on which, rather than being 
physically present, the individual modules simply 
exist in the device software (virtual modules). 
These virtual modules (and, therefore, access to 
the associated input and output data) are activated 
or deactivated when cyclic communication is 
established. The virtual modules, of which a slave 
device in process automation is able to make use, are 
specified in the device profile for PA devices.
Frequently, PROFIBUS master devices support the 
functions of both a DPM1 and a DPM2. Similarly, 
there are also automation devices which are able to 
operate as both masters and slaves. In practice, it is 
rarely possible to unequivocally categorize physical 
devices into the function classes outlined above.
3 .3 . Cyclical communication and 
PROFIBUS diagnostics
Once the configuration has been loaded on the class 1 
master with the help of the configuration tool, the 
master establishes cyclical communication with 
the associated slave devices (MS0 channel). During 
this power-up phase, the slave adopts a two-stage 
approach to checking the configuration data 
received from the master.
First, the parameters set in the configuration (e.g. 
master address, watchdog time and ID number) 
are transferred to the slave (parameterization) 
and checked (configuration). The ID number is 
unique for each device type and is assigned by PI. 
Cyclical communication can only take place if the 
ID number from the configuration tallies with the 
ID number saved in the slave. Next, the information 
about the configured modules – in other words, 
PAGE 18
PROFIBUS System Description12
the configuration bytes – is transferred to the slave 
and checked. Cyclical communication can only be 
established if the modules which are physically 
present tally with those set in the configuration or if 
the device can adapt to the configuration received.
Successful establishment of communication is then 
verified via the requested diagnostics data. The slave 
reports invalid parameter or configuration data to 
the master through corresponding errors in the 
PROFIBUS standard diagnostics. If the parameter and 
configuration data is valid, the master will initiate 
cyclical communication with the slave device.
PROFIBUS diagnostics comprise both PROFIBUS-
specific standard diagnostics and advanced 
diagnostics. The latter contains device-specific 
diagnostics data relating, for example, to measuring 
or setting procedures. Any changes to device-specific 
diagnostics data are reported by a slave in the 
response message during cyclical communication; 
the master will respond accordingly in the next bus 
cycle by polling the diagnostics data, rather than the 
process data, of the slave concerned. Each PROFIBUS 
slave can only engage in cyclical data exchange with 
one DPM1. This ensures that a slave can only receive 
output data from one master, thereby avoiding data 
inconsistency.
Foods are bound by especially stringent 
specifications for quality and traceability of 
the manufacturing process, including the 
communication technology. With PROFIBUS, 
these features are of the highest priority, which 
is evidenced by its wide distribution in the food 
industry.
3 .4 Acyclical communication and 
parameter addressing
A key part of the acyclical data exchange process is 
the writing or reading of device parameters at the 
behest of the master. These device parameters can 
be used by a centralized operator tool to configure 
a field device, thereby adapting it to the specific task 
it has been charged with performing in the technical 
process.
There are two different channels for acyclical 
communication, MS1 and MS2. In this context, a link 
between a master and a slave (MS1 link) via the MS1 
channel can only ever be established if cyclical data 
exchange is taking place between the master and 
slave concerned.
As a slave is only able to exchange data cyclically with 
one master at once, a slave can only have up to one 
MS1 link. Subject to corresponding parameterization 
data, the MS1 link is established implicitly when 
cyclical communication is initiated and monitored 
by the watchdog time.
A slave can have a MS2 link with one or a number of 
masters simultaneously as long as it is not engaged 
in cyclic communication. The MS2 connection has 
to be established explicitly by the master. It has a 
separate time monitoring mechanism by means of 
which a MS2 link will be closed if it is not used for a 
set period of time. Unlike for cyclical communication, 
a complex configuration based on the device master 
file is not required for acyclical communication; 
usually, knowledge of the address of the device 
concerned is all that is needed to establish a MS2 link 
on the master side.
Device parameters are addressed in a slave device 
by means of the specification of the slot and index. 
The "slot" (values from 0 to 254) is a slot on a modular 
device; on PA devices, a slot addresses a function 
block (see Chapter 4). The "index" (0 to 254) is the 
address of a parameter within the slot concerned.
Devices with PA profile 3.0 and higher must have a 
MS2 channel, although the MS1 channel is optional. 
Since, in practice, very few PA profile devices 
implement a MS1 channel, the MS2 channel is used 
universally for acyclical data transmission in process 
automation.
3 .5 Standardized function blocks (FB)
When developing and using cross-manufacturer 
application profiles, the technology of the 
standardized function blocks (FB) plays an important 
role, because the growing functional scope of 
PAGE 19
PROFIBUS System Description 13
modern field devices allows different controllers 
to be integrated without specific communication 
knowledge and without manufacturer-specific 
adaptations to the application program. Function 
blocks, which contain the sometimes complex 
functions of field devices (e.g. calibration, motor 
power-up, speed change etc.) in encapsulated 
form, are used for this. They therefore function as 
a "representative" (Proxy FB) of the corresponding 
field devices placed in the control program. 
The function blocks are generally created in the 
standardized programming language of "Structured 
Text" (ST) as per IEC 61131-3. A Proxy FB presents 
access to its functions in encapsulated graphic form 
and can therefore also be called by the "simpler" 
programming languages of IEC 61131-3, such as 
LD/COP (Ladder Diagram/Contact Plan), FBD/FUP 
(Function Block Diagram/Function Plan) or IL/APL 
(Instruction List/ Application List). 
Proxy FBs are generally specified by device profile 
working groups and provided to the user in different 
ways, depending on the business model. The 
advantage here is that they can be used in controllers 
from different manufacturers. Individual device 
manufacturers can also make use of this to give their 
"slaves" competitive advantages by encapsulating 
certain functions.
For the practical use of FBs by application 
programmers, an interface that is system-neutral from 
the viewpoint of the many controller manufacturers 
(Application Programmer's Interface or [API]) must 
be defined in addition to the known PROFIBUS 
communication interface (communication platform, 
MS0, MS1, MS2, Figure 11) specified in IEC 61158. This 
makes it easy to port user software and the proxy FBs 
used from the programmable logic controller (PLC) 
of manufacturer A to the PLC of manufacturer B 
using standardized communication blocks ("Comm 
FBs") if the controller manufacturer offers Comm FBs 
in their programming library.
Fig. 11: The use of function blocks (Proxy FB and 
Comm FB)
3 .6 Comm FBs as a system-neutral 
interface with PROFIBUS
PI has defined function blocks (shown in yellow 
in Figure 11) for the system-neutral interfaces in 
the "Communication and Proxy Function Blocks 
according to IEC 61138-3" guideline. These function 
blocks are supported by the languages of IEC 
61131-3 and the communication services of IEC 
61158 defined for PROFIBUS. The guideline defines 
communication blocks for master classes 1 and 2 
and slaves and several additional help functions as 
well. The technological functions of a field device 
can be addressed uniformly using these Comm 
FBs. All FBs share a common concept for displaying 
errors with coding as per IEC 61158-6.
PLC manufacturers offer such standard 
communication blocks in PLC-specific "IEC libraries" .
In addition to the previously mentioned "neutralized" 
access to acyclical communication functions via 
MS1, the FDT interface (see page 19) completes the 
Application Programmer's Interface (via MS2) for the 
access of engineering and configuration tools.
4 Application profiles
To ensure smooth interaction between the bus 
nodes of an automation solution, the basic functions 
and services of the nodes must match. They have 
to "speak the same language" and use the same 
concepts and data formats. This applies both for 
communication and for device functions and 
industry sector solutions. This uniformity is achieved 
through the use of "profiles" relating to device 
families or special industry sector solutions. These 
profiles specify features which "profile devices" must 
exhibit as a mandatory requirement. 
These can be cross-device-class features, such as 
safety-relevant behavior (Common Application 
Profiles) or device-class-specific features (Specific 
Application Profiles). Here, a differentiation is made 
between
• Device profiles 
for robots, drives, process devices, encoders, 
pumps etc., for example
• Industry profiles 
for laboratory technology and rail vehicles, for 
example
• Integration profiles 
for the integration of subsystems such as HART 
or IO-Link systems
PAGE 20
PROFIBUS System Description14
Figure 11 shows the classification of profiles in the 
PROFIBUS system building blocks, and Table 5 
provides an overview of currently available PROFIBUS 
profiles. The following contains further information 
on several of them.
4 .1 PROFIdrive
The PROFIdrive profile is used in factory automation. 
It defines the device behavior, the access method and 
the data formats for the drive data of electrical drives 
on PROFIBUS, from simple frequency converters to 
highly dynamic servo controllers. All the details on 
this can be found in the relevant system description 
(Order No. 4.322).
Tab. 5: PROFIBUS application profiles
 Profile Name  Profile Content PI Order No.
Specific application profiles
Dosing / Weighing Profile describes the use of dosing and weighing systems on PROFIBUS. 3.182a; 3.182b; 3.182c
Encoder Profile describes the connection of rotary, angular, and linear encoders with 
single-turn and multi-turn resolution. 3.162
Fluid Power Profile describes the control of hydraulic drives via PROFIBUS (cooperation 
with VDMA). 3.112
HART on PROFIBUS Profile desribes the integration of HART devices in PROFIBUS systems. 3.102
Ident Systems Profile describes the communication between identification devices 
(barcode reader, transponder). 3.142
LabDevices Profile describes the properties of laboratory automation devices on 
PROFIBUS. 2.412
Intelligent Pumps Profile desribes the use of liquid pumps on PROFIBUS (cooperation with 
VDMA). 2.422
Low Voltage Switchgear Profile descibes data exchange for low-voltage switchgear (switch 
disconnector, motor starter, etc.) on PROFIBUS. 3.122
PA Devices Profile desribes the properties of process automation devices on 
PROFIBUS.  3.042
PROFIdrive Profile describes the device behavior and access behavior to data for 
variable speed electric drives on PROFIBUS. 3.172; 3.272
Remote I/O for PA Profile desribes the interchangeability of remote I/O devices in process 
automation. 3.132
Remote I/O for FA Profile desribes the interchangeability of remote I/O devices in factory 
automation. 3.242
Robot / Numerical Controls Profile describes the system behavior of numerical controls, robot controls 
and positioning controls from the view of the PROFIBUS communication. 3.052
SEMI Profile describes properties of semiconductor manufacturing devices on 
PROFIBUS (SEMI standard). 3.152
 General application profiles
Identification & Maintenance Profile desribes a concept for identification of PROFIBUS devices and 
Internet access to device-specific information. 3.502
iPar-Server Profile desribes the saving of additional i-parameters in the controller and 
the read-back of i-parameters after a device replacement. 3.532
PROFIsafe Profile desribes safe communication of safety-related devices (emergency 
OFF switch, light array, etc.) with safety controllers via PROFIBUS. 3.192
Redundancy Profile desribes the mechanism for field devices with redundant 
communication behavior. 2.212
Time Stamp Profile desribes the precisely timed assignment of certain events and 
actions by time stamping. 3.522
Data Types
Document is part of ProfileGuideline Part 2 and is dealing with data type 
definitions of profile variables and parameters, programming languages of 
field devices and controllers as well as platform aspects for field devices.
3.512
Diagnosis Document is part of Profile-Guideline Part 3 and is dealing with the different 
aspects of diagnosis to provide information about faults of field devices. 3.522
Host Application Document describes, for each application profile, the functional 
requirements for the host and the engineering system. 3.902
PAGE 21
PROFIBUS System Description 15
Humidity measurement plays an important role 
in the processes of almost all industries, but it's 
integration into fieldbus technology remained 
disregarded for a long time. PROFIBUS provided 
the solution. One example is the humidity 
measurement carried out when producing 
pasta.
4 .2 PROFIBUS PA (PA devices,  
"PA profile")
The PROFIBUS PA profile is the basis for using 
PROFIBUS in process automation. Besides the use of 
this profile, this application is often characterized by 
intrinsically-safe operation, large cable lengths and 
device infeed via the bus cable. The PA profile defines 
the functions and parameters for process-control 
devices, such as transmitters, actuators, valves and 
analyzers. These functions and parameters are used 
to adapt the devices to the respective application 
and process conditions. The specifications are 
based on function blocks, and the parameters are 
classified as input, output and internal parameters. 
The profile also specifies how the various services 
of the PROFIBUS communication protocol are used. 
Accordingly, for example, process data exchanged 
cyclically is based on a standard format for all 
devices. In addition to the measured value and/or 
manipulated measurement value, this format also 
features a status providing information about the 
quality of the value and possible limit violations. It 
thereby provides the foundation for harmonized 
applications, simplified engineering, device 
exchangeability and increased reliability by means 
of standardized diagnostic information.
PA profile version 3.02 has been expanded with a 
host of application-oriented functions since the 
previous version of 3.01. These functions take 
into account the years of operating experience in 
PROFIBUS PA systems and implements the resulting 
user demands.
4 .3 Improvements in PA profile 3 .02
The improvements made to PA profile 3.02 
concentrate on the optimization of lifecycle 
management of the devices with the goal of linking 
the simplicity of traditional 4-20 mA technology with 
the performance potential of fieldbus technology.
Version flexibility when replacing devices
Up until now, it was necessary to fall back on devices 
of the same generation as the installed devices when 
devices had to be replaced, even though a more 
state-of-the-art version with additional innovative 
features was available on the market. Version 3.02 of 
the profile does away with this limitation by enabling 
(new) devices to automatically adjust themselves to 
the version and functions of its predecessor device 
(Automatic ID Number Adaption, Figure 12). Here, 
the (new) device is notified of the version of the 
predecessor device from the controller or control 
system and automatically adapts itself to that 
device's functions without interrupting the process. 
This device feature is part of the certification testing 
of devices with profile version 3.02. The next time 
the system is planned to stop, the new device can 
be integrated into the control system and the new 
functions can be used.
Fig. 12: Device replacement with transfer of the 
predecessors' functions
Simplified device integration
In contrast to the trusted configuration of 4-20 
mA devices in the field, the integration of fieldbus 
devices puts greater demands on the operator due 
to the larger function scope. Working with the device 
descriptions required for this must be possible for 
the user without special knowledge, however.
The simplification implemented in PA profile 3.02 
is based on cross-manufacturer rules for ensuring 
unambiguous compatibility between the description 
PAGE 22
PROFIBUS System Description16
files (GSD, EDD, DTM) and the field devices. Among 
other things, the rules stipulate the storage of 
standardized parameters in the device and device 
description, which enables the integration tools to 
automatically assign devices and description files 
(Figure 13). This means considerable simplification 
during the initial installation or device replacement. 
In addition, simple and clean labeling on the device 
housing makes unambiguous assignment of devices 
to description files easier, e.g. when removing 
devices from storage. These device features are part 
of the certification testing.
Fig. 13: Device replacement with transfer of the 
predecessors' functions
Accelerating data uploads and downloads
Depending on the phase of the life cycle of a system, 
considerable amounts of data must be transmitted 
when adapting parameters, during commissioning 
and during maintenance or device replacement. 
Depending on the function scope of the devices, this 
could be several hundred parameters, which makes 
the time required for transmission more important. 
PA profile 3.02 optimizes transmission through 
optimum grouping of the parameters and simplified 
access. Depending on the amount of data being 
transmitted, the time required could be reduced by 
a factor of 10.
Continuously standardized device diagnostics
Consistency in device replacement is also ensured 
with regard to the output of diagnostic information. 
Devices with profile 3.02 are required to output 
diagnostic information as per the categories 
of NAMUR recommendation 107 (Figure 14), 
whereby the mapping is already carried out by 
the manufacturer. When replacing devices, the 
owner therefore need not spend time or effort on 
any adaptations or changes. All devices provide 
identically-structured diagnostic information by 
default, thereby ensuring a quick and easy overview 
of the system. Additional detailed information 
enables device replacement and repair to be 
planned, system downtimes to be avoided, which 
saves money, and the service life of the system to be 
increased.
Fig. 14: Diagnostic mapping as per NAMUR 
recommendation 107
4 .4 HART on PROFIBUS 
In view of the very large number of HART devices 
installed in the field, their integration into existing 
or new PROFIBUS systems is a pressing task for most 
users. The “PROFIBUS Profile HART” document (Order 
No. 3.102) offers an open solution for this. It defines 
the use of the PROFIBUS communication mechanism 
without changes to the protocol and services of 
PROFIBUS. 
The document defines a profile of PROFIBUS, which 
is implemented in the master and slave above level 
7 and therefore enables the mapping of the client-
master server model of HART on PROFIBUS. Full 
compatibility with HART specifications has been 
assured by collaborating with the HART Foundation 
(today FieldComm Group [FCG]) in drafting the 
specification.
The HART client application is integrated in a 
PROFIBUS master and the HART master in a PROFIBUS 
slave (Figure 15), whereby the latter serves as a 
multiplexer and takes over communication with the 
HART devices.
A communication channel which works 
independently of the MS1 and MS2 connections 
has been defined for the transmission of HART 
messages. One HMD (HART Master Device) can 
support a number of clients. The number depends 
on the implementation.
Version 2.0 of the profile extends the existing 
integration to include standardized PROFIBUS 
PAGE 23
PROFIBUS System Description 17
modules for hard-wired HART devices as well as 
for the new WirelessHART® device generation. As a 
result, there is no need to implement a profile layer in 
the DP master for cyclic data exchange with DP and 
channel-specific diagnostics.
Fig. 15: Operating HART devices on PROFIBUS
HART devices can be connected to the HMD via 
various components or to PROFIBUS via modules. 
These originate from a GSD of the component or are 
created with a device-specific module configurator. 
This is typically implemented as a class 2 DP master 
and as an HMD; furthermore, it can offer the detailed 
configuration of complex HART devices using an 
EDD or the FDT/DTM concept.
4 .5 PROFIsafe
The risk of human injury, damage to production 
systems and environmental harm is inherent in 
many industrial processes. This realization resulted in 
"safety-related automation technology" becoming 
of great importance, as its safety requirements are 
far above and beyond those of standard automation 
technology. This demand must also be satisfied 
by the fieldbus technology, and the PROFIsafe 
communication profile serves this purpose for 
PROFIBUS.
All the details on this can be found in the relevant 
system description (Order No. 4.342).
4 .6 Identification & Maintenance (I&M)
The definitions collected in the Identification & 
Maintenance (I&M) application profile are binding 
specifications for the storage of specific data in each 
PROFIBUS device. This gives the owner standard 
access to all device data through all devices 
during configuration and commissioning as well 
during parameterization and update procedures. 
The database for this are XML files stored on the  
www.profibus.com server. These files are managed 
online by the device manufacturers and are 
therefore kept up-to-date over the entire device life 
cycle (Figure 16). Using an engineering tool, this data 
can be read out at any time, whereby the "device-
local" data is compared to the centralized, daily-
updated information from the manufacturer for the 
device in question. This is very helpful for system 
documentation, order processes and maintenance 
processes, for example.
Fig. 16: The principle of I&M functions
5 Device integration
A particular advantage of PROFIBUS is openness, 
which in turn brings with it compatibility with a 
large number of device and system manufacturers. 
However, this does mean that the benefit of 
numerous different device and systems suppliers 
is countered by a correspondingly high number of 
different possible HMIs. Standards for the centralized 
and uniform integration of fieldbuses into 
automation systems have been developed in order 
to ensure that a disproportionate amount of time 
and effort is not required with regard to installation, 
version management and device operation. Devices 
are usually integrated by means of mapping their 
functionality to operator software. The process 
is optimized by consistent data management 
throughout the life cycle of the system, with identical 
data structures for all devices. All standards cited 
in the following can be used in conjunction with 
PROFIBUS.
A summarized representation of device integration 
can be found in Figure 17.
PAGE 24
PROFIBUS System Description18
Fig. 17: Technologies for device integration
5 .1 General Station Description (GSD)
The GSD (general station description) is provided 
by the device manufacturer and is the electronic 
data sheet for the communication properties of 
each and every PROFIBUS device. It supplies all 
information necessary for cyclic communication 
with the PROFIBUS master and for configuration of 
the PROFIBUS network in the form of a text-based 
description. It contains the key data of the device, 
information about its communication capabilities, 
and further information about, for example, 
diagnostic values. The GSD for device integration 
alone is sufficient for the cyclic exchange of measured 
values and manipulated variables between the field 
device and automation system.
Compared to the device-specific GSD, a profile GSD 
only contains information about the parameters and 
diagnostic descriptions specified in a device profile 
(here: the PA profile, see chapter 4.2) that apply to 
all manufacturers and are mandatory for "profile 
devices" . The content of a profile GSD is thus the 
same for all associated profile devices and is device-
neutral. As a result, PA profile devices not only 
have their extremely attractive functions as digital 
fieldbus devices but also the exact property that 
supporters of conventional 4-20 mA technology 
regard as especially advantageous: namely, a 
uniform and vendor-neutral communication 
interface. Figure 18 shows on the right two such 
profile devices with inputs and outputs (PROFIBUS 
PA) with bidirectional communication with the 
controller. The left side of figure 18 shows an 
identical device arrangement with use of 4-20 mA 
technology with its unidirectional communication 
and separate interface for each measured or 
manipulated variable value for a similar number of 
process signals. This figure illustrates the enormous 
difference in hardware and installation expenses 
between the two technologies.
Fig. 18: Expense comparison for devices with profile GSD (on right) and 4-20 mA interface  
(on left)
PAGE 25
PROFIBUS System Description 19
5 .2 Electronic Device Description (EDD)
The GSD alone is not suffi   cient to describe the 
application-specifi  c functions and parameters 
of complex fi  eld devices. A powerful language 
is required for the parameterization, service, 
maintenance and diagnostics of devices from 
the engineering system. The Electronic Device 
Description Language (EDDL) standardized in 
IEC 61804-2 is available for this purpose. Further 
development is promoted jointly by PI, the 
FieldComm Group (formerly HART Communication 
Foundation and Fieldbus Foundation) and the OPC 
Foundation.
An EDD is a text-based device description which 
is independent of the engineering system's OS. 
It provides a description of the device functions 
communicated acyclically, including graphics based 
options, and also provides device information such 
as order data, materials, maintenance instructions 
etc.
The EDD provides the basis for processing and 
displaying device data on the EDD Interpreter. The 
EDD Interpreter is the open interface between the 
EDDs and the operator program. It provides the 
operator program with data for visualization with 
a standard look & feel, regardless of the device and 
manufacturer.
The use of PROFIBUS with the PROFIdrive 
profi  le is widespread in the control of packaging 
machines. All functions are executed on a 
single bus, which considerably reduces the 
expenditure for engineering, hardware and 
training.
5 .3 Device Type Manager (DTM) and Field 
Device Tool (FDT) interface
In comparison to the GSD and EDD technologies 
based on descriptions, the FDT/DTM technology uses 
a software-based method of device integration. The 
DTM is a software component and communicates 
with the engineering system via the FDT interface. 
The FDT/DTM technology is being developed further 
by the FDT Group.
A DTM is a device operator program by means 
of which device functionality (device DTM) or 
communication capabilities (communication DTM) 
are made operational; it features the standardized 
FDT (Field Device Tool) interface with a frame 
application in the engineering system. The DTM 
is programmed on a device-specifi  c basis by the 
manufacturer and contains a separate user interface 
for each device. DTM technology is very fl  exible in 
terms of how it is confi  gured.
The FDT interface is a cross-manufacturer open 
interface specifi  cation which supports the 
integration of fi  eld devices into operator programs 
using DTMs. It defi  nes how DTMs interact with an FDT 
frame application in the operator tool or engineering 
system. The interface itself is independent of the 
communication protocol and is available at present 
for more than 13 protocols including PROFIBUS, 
PROFINET and IO-Link.
5 .4 Field Device Integration (FDI)
FDI is a new technology standardized in IEC 62769, 
that was developed jointly by manufacturers and 
trade associations of process and automation 
technology, for easy and uniform integration of 
fi  eld devices in various host systems. The goal of 
this development eff  ort was to merge the two 
integration technologies that previously co-existed 
on the market – EDD and FDT – into an uniform, 
new-generation technology. The best elements 
of each technology were combined in FDI with 
new technologies such as the OPC UA information 
model and the life cycle model into a single, cross-
vendor technology. FDI supports typical operations 
such as confi  guration, commissioning, diagnostics, 
and calibration over the life cycle of simple and 
complex fi  eld devices. With FDI an alternative to 
the very expensive parallel situation of EDD and 
FDT called for by users and manufacturers alike has 
been achieved. 
The further development and maintenance of FDI 
will be carried out jointly by PI and FieldComm 
Group in cooperation with OPC Foundation and 
FDT Group. This includes the work on developing 
specifi  cations for FDI and EDDL and, in particular, the 
supply of FDI tools and components to the market 
and the global technical support for implementation 
and conformity testing. The FOUNDATION Fieldbus 
(FF), HART, PROFIBUS, and PROFINET protocols are 
supported. The FDI specifi  cation is available for 
download from the PI and FDT Group websites. 
PAGE 26
PROFIBUS System Description20
Device Package
The centerpiece of FDI is the scalable Device Package 
containing all information needed by an FDI host 
(control system, device management system, etc.) 
for integration of an intelligent field device. Each 
field device is described by one such Device Package 
using a binary coded file according to IEC 29500 
(Container format, Open Packaging Conventions). 
This Device Package is then used without changes 
in all integration tools and controllers from the 
single-user PC to the complete automation system.
 Fig. 19: FDI Device Package and FDI host
The Device Package (Figure 19, top) of a field device 
is a collection of obligatory and optional files that 
are required for configuration, commissioning, 
diagnostics, and calibration over the entire device 
life cycle. Mandatory files are the device description 
(Electronic Device Description, EDD) with device 
parameters and device structure, the Business Logic 
(BL) with consistency rules and device functions, 
and the User Interface Description (UID). These 
three descriptions are based on the meanwhile 
harmonized EDDL according to IEC 61804-3. The 
different EDDL "dialects" used up to now in the 
various protocols are now a thing of the past. The 
EDD-based part of a Device Package  is shown in 
Figure 20.
Fig. 20: EDD-based part of an FDI Device Package 
in the FDI reference host
An optional file is the User Interface Plugin (UIP), 
which enables users to program customized user 
interfaces (Figure 21). In addition, device-related 
data and documents such as manuals, certificates, 
and catalog information can be added optionally in 
the form of attachments. 
Fig. 21: User-programmed graphic elements
PAGE 27
PROFIBUS System Description 21
Integrated Development Environment (IDE)
For integration of FDI in field devices, the cross-
protocol Integrated Development Environment 
(IDE, Figure 22) provides device manufacturers with 
a tool for easy development of FDI Device Packages 
for their various PROFIBUS, PROFINET, FF and HART 
device versions based on a uniform process. The 
FDI IDE also provides an easy, reliable conversion 
of existing EDD files into corresponding FDI Device 
Packages. A runtime environment in the FDI IDE 
and the Device Package Test Tool gives developers 
a platform for extensive testing of newly developed 
Device Packages, which ensures their quality and 
conformity with the FDI standard already during the 
development phase.
Fig. 22: IDE development environment
Integration in FDI hosts
Device Packages can be integrated in original FDI 
hosts (Figure 19, bottom). In order for Device Packages 
to behave in the same way in different host systems, 
a uniform "Host Component" was developed and 
made available to host manufacturers: These include 
the UI Engine for display of the components, UID and 
UIP versions, and the EDD Engine for support of the 
EDDL versions with backward compatibility (figures 
19 and 22). 
Integration in FDT Frames
For use of FDI in FDT-based systems, an "FDI-to-FDT 
adapter" in the form of a device DTM is used , 
It includes a complete FDI host, complies with 
the FDT standard and can be installed as usual. 
Corresponding collaboration between the FDT 
Group and the FieldComm Group is responsible for 
this. 
Investment protection
Besides the FDI goals of standardization, 
simplification, and cost minimization, an equally 
important challenge of FDI is the preservation of 
existing equipment. Due to the use of binary EDD, 
integrated in the FDI Package, FDI is a logical next 
step for existing EDD-based systems, which host 
manufacturers are also evolving to. For FDT-based 
systems, the mentioned "Adapter strategy" provides 
the investment protection demanded in that device 
suppliers can supply the adapter with integrated 
Device Packages if it is not already available on the 
system side.
FDI as introduction to Industrie 4 .0
Devices with a PROFIBUS or PROFINET interface are 
currently being supplied with product descriptions 
for configuration and device integration purposes, 
such as the General Station Description (GSD) or 
Electronic Device Description (EDD). This fits nicely 
with the concept of components for Industrie 4.0 
with its administration shells. Both solutions for the 
product description include information that will 
be part of the administration shell for engineering, 
commissioning, and other purposes. When FDI is 
used, the information from the extended concept of 
the Device Package could also become part of the 
administration shell to be undertaken for PROFIBUS 
and PROFINET. The field devices thus become 
Industrie 4.0 components and the device data can 
be made available via the internet for any user at any 
location.
6 Quality assurance and 
certification
For PROFIBUS devices of different types and 
manufacturers to be able to perform different tasks 
in the automation process correctly, they must 
exchange information over the bus without errors. 
A prerequisite for this is a standard-compliant 
implementation of the communication protocols 
and application profiles by the device manufacturer. 
To ensure that this demand is met, PI established a 
quality-assurance procedure where certificates are 
granted for test-passing devices using test reports as 
a basis (Figure 23).
The aim of certification is to provide users with 
the assurance that PROFIBUS field devices from 
different manufacturers are capable of error-free 
operation when used together. For this purpose, 
the field devices are tested in practical applications 
in accredited independent test laboratories with 
the required testing accuracy as per the quality 
guidelines of PI. This makes it possible to identify 
any misinterpretation of the standards at an early 
stage so that manufacturers can take the necessary 
remedial action before devices are implemented in 
the field. The test also examines the field device’s 
PAGE 28
PROFIBUS System Description22
compatibility with other certified field devices. Once 
the tests have been passed successfully, a device 
certificate is issued by PI's certification center upon 
application by the manufacturer.
The test procedures and certification process are 
described in the respective guidelines. 
Fig. 23: Device certification, test procedure
The test procedure
The prerequisites for testing are an issued ID number 
and a GSD file. An EDD for the field device or the 
field device itself may also be required.
The test procedure, which is the same for all test 
laboratories, is comprised of several steps:
• A GSD/EDD check  ensures that the device 
description files comply with the specifications.
• During the hardware test , the electrical 
properties of the PROFIBUS interface on the 
test subject are tested for compliance with the 
specifications. This includes, for example, the 
terminating resistors, the suitability of driver 
modules and other modules used and the 
quality of the performance level. 
• The function test  addresses the bus access 
protocol, transmission protocol and the functions 
of the test subject. The parameterization and 
adaptation of the test system are carried out 
using the GSD. When the test is being carried 
out, the black-box method is used. Here, no 
knowledge of the internal structure of the 
implementation is required. The responses 
generated by the test subject and their time 
relations are recorded by the bus monitor. 
• The conformity test is the focal point of testing. 
It verifies that protocol implementation is in 
line with the standard. The test primarily covers 
the state machine, behavior in case of errors, 
addressability, diagnostic data and mixed 
operation.
• During the interoperability test, the interplay 
between the test device and the PROFIBUS 
devices from other manufacturers is tested in a 
multi-vendor system. It is determined whether 
the functionality of the system is maintained 
when the test device is added to it. Operation 
with various different masters is also tested.
• The profile test  is carried out to determine 
whether the test devices work together 
smoothly during operation. The profile test is 
carried out for the PROFIdrive, PA device and 
PROFIsafe profiles. The test determines whether 
the profile functions were implemented in 
accordance with the specifications.
All the steps of the test are documented in detail. 
The notes are available to the manufacturer and 
the certification office. The test report provided to 
the orderer is used as the basis for issuance of the 
certificate by PI.
Once a field device has passed all the tests, the 
manufacturer can request a certificate from PI. Each 
certified device includes a certification number as 
a reference. The certificate has a validity of 3 years 
and can be extended by a manufacturer declaration 
or after new testing. The addresses of the test 
laboratories can be obtained from the PROFIBUS 
website on the Internet.
7 Product implementation
This chapter contains information on options 
for implementing communication interfaces in 
automation and field devices.
A broad spectrum of base technology components 
and development tools (PROFIBUS ASICs, PROFIBUS 
stacks, bus monitors, test tools and commissioning 
tools) and services are available for device 
development and implementation of the PROFIBUS 
protocol. They enable device manufacturers to 
carry out development efficiently. An overview 
of this is found in the product catalog from PI  
(www.profibus.com/products/product-finder/ ). 
For further information, see the technical 
documentation, and for competent consulting, refer 
to the PI Competence Center.
PAGE 29
PROFIBUS System Description 23
When implementing a PROFIBUS interface, note that 
the device behavior is determined by the PROFIBUS 
protocol and the implemented application. For this 
reason, the entire field device is tested during a 
certification test. Base technologies are generally 
only "pre-certified" , i.e. tested using a sample 
application. This does not guarantee that each field 
device based on this base technology behaves in 
compliance with the standards. The application in 
a field device has a major influence on the device's 
behavior.
7 .1 Standard components
Interface modules
For small to medium quantities, PROFIBUS interface 
modules are suitable. They are available in a wide 
variety of versions on the market. The various designs 
of these modules implement the full bus protocol 
and offer an easy-to-use user interface for each 
application. This relieves the device manufacturer of 
communication tasks. They can be attached to the 
main PCB of the device as a supplementary module.
Protocol chips
For large quantities, individual implementations 
of the PROFIBUS protocol based on common base 
technology components are available. Here, a 
differentiation is made between
• Single chips, where all PROFIBUS protocol 
functions are integrated on the chip and which 
do not require a separate microcontroller (this is 
a hardware-only solution with a fixed functional 
scope).
• Communication modules which implement 
smaller or larger portions of the protocol on 
the chip. An additional microcontroller and 
firmware offered for the chip are required for full 
implementation of the PROFIBUS protocol.
• Protocol chips which already include a 
microcontroller in the communication module. 
In conjunction with firmware offered for the chip, the 
application communicates via an easy-to-use user 
interface. The decision for a suitable implementation 
variant mainly depends on the complexity of the 
field device, the required performance, the quantity 
and the performance scope to be implemented. 
Several examples are provided in the following.
Implementing simple slaves
Simple I/O devices can be implemented with 
single chip ASICs. All protocol functions are already 
integrated on the ASIC. No microprocessor or 
additional communication software is required. Only 
the components for bus connection, e.g. bus driver, 
optical coupler, quartz etc., are required externally.
Implementing intelligent slaves
With this form of implementation, the essential 
layer-2 portions of the PROFIBUS protocol are 
implemented with a communication module. The 
remaining protocol portions are implemented as 
software on a microcontroller. In most available 
ASICs, the cyclical protocol portions are realized 
on the chip and are generally responsible for the 
transmission of time-critical data.
For highly time-critical applications, protocol 
chips with an integrated microcontroller represent 
an alternative which already handles the entire 
PROFIBUS protocol autonomously. If necessary, an 
externally-connected microcontroller can then be 
used entirely for the application. Depending on the 
performance required, the field device manufacturer 
can also use the microcontroller which is already 
integrated in the protocol chip for the application. 
The available ASICs offer an easy-to-use interface 
and work with commonly used microcontrollers. 
Another option is presented by microprocessors 
with an integrated PROFIBUS core.
Implementing complex masters
The time-critical parts of the PROFIBUS protocol are 
also implemented using a communication module 
and the remaining protocol portions as software on a 
microcontroller here. As with slave implementations, 
ASICs from different manufacturers are available 
for implementing complex master devices. They 
can be operated in conjunction with common 
microprocessors.
A corresponding overview of available protocol 
chips is provided on the PROFIBUS website. For 
further information on the products, we also suggest 
you contact the respective providers.
PROFIBUS stacks
In many cases, chips and supplemental protocol 
software (PROFIBUS stacks) come from different 
providers. This increases the number of solutions 
available on the market.
PAGE 30
PROFIBUS System Description24
7 .2 Implementing transmission 
interfaces
RS485 transmission technology
For field devices which do not draw the required 
power from the bus, the standard RS485 interface 
can be implemented. This provides greater flexibility 
when using the field device, because it can then 
be connected to PROFIBUS DP without a segment 
coupler or link.
RS485 technology is characterized by its low 
interface costs and great robustness. Data rates from 
9.6 KBit/s to 12 MBit/s can be supported without any 
conversion. To supplement this, an intrinsically-safe 
version, RS485-IS, was developed.
The RS485 modules are available from various 
manufacturers and are time-tested (millions are in 
use).
MBP transmission technology
When implementing a bus-powered field device 
with MBP transmission technology, minimal power 
consumption is the main focus. For these devices, a 
typical supply current of only 10 - 15 mA is available 
on the bus cable. This has to supply the entire device, 
including the bus connection and the measurement 
electronics.
Special modem chips are available for these 
requirements. These modems draw the required 
operating energy for the entire device from the 
MBP bus connection and make it available as supply 
voltage to the other electronic components of the 
device. In addition, they convert the digital signals 
of the connected protocol chip to the bus signal of 
the MBP connection that is modulated to the energy 
supply.
8 Outlook
Ethernet is established
Industrial communication is a key technology of 
automation engineering and also an "enabler" 
for Industrie 4.0. Successful fieldbus and Ethernet 
technologies monitor and control equipment and 
machinery, optimize manufacturing and production 
processes, and connect logistics, quality assurance, 
and maintenance with production. Rising market 
Using this as a basis, technically custom-tailored 
and cost-optimized products which fulfill industry-
specific requirements can be created, which is also 
the focus of PI. The fact that the PROFIBUS chip 
and the stack can come from different sources 
is further evidence of the openness and multi-
vendor capability of PROFIBUS, which is not only 
limited to the specification, but extends to product 
implementations as well.
Pure software solutions can seldom be found on 
the market. The reason behind this is that the price-
performance ratio of the processors to be used is 
considerably less favorable than with chip-oriented 
implementations. Pure software solutions are 
therefore more likely to be used in cases with specific 
marginal conditions. An overview of the available 
variants of the protocol software is found on the 
PROFIBUS website. Further information on the 
products is available from the respective providers.
Implementing user profiles
The PROFIBUS protocol ensures the secure data 
transmission of bit sequences. The interpretation 
of data in a field device is handled by the user. 
User profiles represent the links between the 
PROFIBUS protocol and the actual application 
in a field device. The data formats, data access 
methods, parameterization and cyclical and acyclical 
communication diagnostics defined in the profile 
descriptions are implemented in software, which 
is often handled by the device manufacturers 
themselves. A host of technology suppliers provide 
support here.
From raw material supply to the brewing process 
to filling: "Beer brewing" is a good example 
showing the interplay between the discreet and 
continuous procedures in a process. PROFIBUS 
handles precisely this task with its own bus 
system and has no competition here.

PAGE 31
PROFIBUS System Description 25
demands have quickly given added importance to 
the high performance potential of Industrial Ethernet 
compared to fieldbus technology. An example of this 
is the brisk replacement of PROFIBUS by PROFINET 
in factory automation. This technology advance is 
now becoming feasible in the harsh environmental 
conditions of the process industry with its stringent 
requirements for durability, compatibility, and 
availability. 
Stepwise feasibility of PROFINET
PI is coordinating with prominent manufacturers 
and users on making PROFINET feasible for process 
automation (see Figure 24). For this, the use of 
current and future PROFINET technologies must be 
reconciled with investment protection for existing 
equipment with runtimes of 30 years or more. This 
requirement will be met in the form of a solution 
platform, which will use PROFINET aspects relevant 
for process automation that are either already 
established, newly specified or still undergoing 
specification to make the performance capability of 
PROFINET available for process automation as well 
while fully preserving existing equipment. The timing 
of this is also dependent on when the specifications 
will be implemented by manufacturers in their 
respective products. 
Fig. 24: Stepwise introduction of PROFINET in the 
intrinsically safe field
PROFIBUS PA remains a key technology 
PROFIBUS PA enables long cable distances and 
explosion protection in process automation as well as 
the native, digital integration of field instrumentation 
in control systems and asset management systems. 
Based on the current state of the art, the connection 
is typically by means of a link or coupler via PROFIBUS 
D P.  
The user benefits of PROFIBUS PA result from, among 
other things, the use of digital communication 
instead of analog communication, the suitability for 
easy proof of intrinsic safety type of protection, and 
the properties of the PA device profile oriented to 
the process industry. PROFIBUS PA is thus still the key 
technology for digital communication in the field for 
the process industry in the long run. 
PROFIBUS PA on PROFINET
PROFIBUS PA will achieve the demanded 
investment protection in this way. The connection 
to PROFINET systems is by means of a "proxy" , 
which is a transition that acts as a master in the PA 
system but as a bus node (device) in the PROFINET 
system, which allows the PA segment to be easily 
configured in PROFINET. As a result, the proxy is 
integrated in the PROFINET infrastructure in the 
same way as the directly connected remote I/O 
stations, Motor Control Center (MCC), or PROFINET 
field devices (see Figure 25). 
Further steps
The named solution platform is the basis for further 
steps targeting the introduction of PROFINET 
in process automation. These include the new 
PROFINET functions "Configuration in Run" and 
"System redundancy" which are indispensable for 
process automation as well as a further developed 
Fig. 25: PROFINET in the field with PROFIBUS PA integrated via a proxy
PAGE 32
PROFIBUS System Description26
PA device profile. Conversely, the long-proven 
PROFINET properties such as neighborhood 
detection and device diagnostics will contribute 
significantly to the implementation of urgent user 
requirements specifically documented in multiple 
NAMUR recommendations, e.g. NE 107 (see Figure 
26). 
Fig. 26: Assignment of the PROFINET device 
diagnostics to NE 107
9 User benefits
Owners of machines and automation systems in 
the production and processing industries place 
high demands on reliability and economy. The 
systems must fulfill their function for years, and the 
interplay of components and systems from different 
manufacturers must be ensured. PROFIBUS, the 
world's leading modularly-constructed industrial 
communication system fulfills these requirements. 
The prominent feature of PROFIBUS is its ability to 
optimally fulfill industry-specific requirements by 
combining suitable modules, especially those of 
application profiles. PROFIBUS DP for the production 
industry, PROFIdrive for drive applications, PROFIBUS 
PA for the process industry and PROFIsafe for safety-
related applications are the main examples here. 
Application profiles also ensure uniform behavior 
of the devices used, regardless of the manufacturer, 
and therefore their interoperability on the bus.
9 .1 Standardized and consistent
PROFIBUS is based on modularity and standards; 
the benefits to the user are flexibility and ease 
of use. Modern systems and machines are often 
complex in structure and tightly integrated into 
the communication landscape of the company. 
The unimpeded flow of data is therefore a primary 
user requirement of the owner. PROFIBUS provides 
precisely this with its unique horizontal and vertical 
consistency. All PROFIBUS solutions use the same 
communication protocol. This enables discrete 
procedures (such as filling and packaging), continuous 
procedures (such as mixing and heating) and safety-
related procedures in a system to be handled over 
the same bus. Separate systems are unnecessary. 
This "hybrid automation" with PROFIBUS overcomes 
limitations, makes things simpler and reduces costs 
over the entire operating timeframe, from planning 
and engineering to installation and from training 
and operation to maintenance and documentation.
9 .2 Economy
Economy in the operation of machines and 
systems demands that they be highly available. The 
integrated redundancy of PROFIBUS is unrivaled 
when it comes to uninterrupted operation. Equally 
important are the diagnostic messages continuously 
available from the bus, devices and process. They 
provide information regarding the current machine 
and system status and enable timely, status-
based intervention. The result is higher availability 
with reduced maintenance expense. Economy is 
also based on the option to use the respectively 
most suitable device technology for certain tasks. 
PROFIBUS provides this very option, thanks to its 
comprehensive device catalog from a wide variety of 
manufacturers and the compatibility of the devices 
on the bus using the device profiles.
9 .3 Quality consciousness
Quality and quality assurance are of high importance 
with PROFIBUS, because it enables components of 
different types and manufacturers to properly fulfill 
their tasks in the automation process. Globally-
established, independent test laboratories test 
devices in accordance with PROFIBUS specifications 
for certification which are derived from international 
standards and which guarantee high quality 
standards. Specially established PI training centers 
offer "Certified Engineer" and "Certified Installer" 
courses for PROFIBUS. In addition, PI organizes 
workshops for users on selected topics.
9 .4 Innovation and protection of 
privileges
PROFIBUS is known for its high degree of innovation. 
User requests are collected and implemented 
rapidly. Examples include the fulfillment of urgent 
demands from the process industry with the new 
version 3.02 of the profile for process devices and 
the development of direct coupling of PROFIBUS 
to the Ethernet-based communication of PROFINET 
and thus to the MES and ERP levels using proxy 
PAGE 33
PROFIBUS System Description 27
technology. Here, the design and communication 
of PROFIBUS are adapted to PROFINET, while the 
PROFIBUS segments and their characteristics remain 
completely unchanged. At the same time, existing 
systems can be modernized and expanded at any 
time with PROFIBUS. HART technology and IO-link 
can easily be integrated into PROFIBUS, and safety-
related tasks are handled by PROFIsafe and drive tasks 
by PROFIdrive. All of this ensures comprehensive 
investment protection, because installed equipment 
can still be used. It's not replaced, but rather 
modernized and expanded.
9 .5 Global support
With over 50 million PROFIBUS nodes installed, 
PROFIBUS has proven its reliability. Users can 
choose from over 2,500 devices from more 
than 300 manufacturers here. PROFIBUS is used 
globally, continuously undergoes development 
and is intensively supported by the world's largest 
fieldbus organization, PI. The regional organizations, 
Competence Centers and multiple test laboratories 
and training centers spread out across the globe 
provide the user with a high level of quality and 
support.
9 .6 Future cooperation
PI's target course for the coming years is "to provide 
users with far-reaching solutions using PROFIBUS 
and PROFINET as an umbrella for new technologies. " 
Cooperation with other organizations, contact with 
users and user groups and existing strengths are all 
to be expanded accordingly. Key technologies are 
to be promoted together while always complying 
with international standardization and consistency. 
PI is determined to provide direction and implement 
solutions that benefit the user.
10 PROFIBUS & PROFINET 
International (PI)
As far as maintenance, ongoing development, 
and market penetration are concerned, open 
technologies need a company-independent 
institution that can serve as a working platform. As 
regards the PROFIBUS and PROFINET technologies, 
this was achieved by founding the PROFIBUS 
Nutzerorganisation e.V. (PNO) in 1989 in Germany 
as a non-profit interest group for manufacturers, 
users, and institutions. The PNO is a member of PI 
(PROFIBUS & PROFINET International), an umbrella 
group which was founded in 1995. PI now has more 
than 25 regional user organizations (RPA: Regional 
PI Associations) and approximately 1,400 members, 
meaning that it is represented on every continent 
and is the world’s largest interest group for the 
industrial communications field (Figure 27).
Fig. 27: PROFIBUS & PROFINET International (PI)
10 .1 Responsibilities of PI
The key tasks performed by PI are:
• Maintenance and further development of 
PROFIBUS and PROFINET
• Promotion of the worldwide establishment of 
PROFIBUS and PROFINET
• Protection of the investments of users 
and manufacturers through influence on 
international standardization
• Representation of the interests of members to 
standards bodies and unions
• Worldwide technical support for companies 
through PI Competence Centers (PICC)
• Quality control through a system for product 
certification at PI Test Laboratories (PITL) based 
on standard conformity tests
• Establishment of a worldwide training standard 
through PI Training Centers (PITC)
10 .2 Technology development
PI has handed responsibility for technological 
development over to PNO in Germany. The Advisory 
Board of PNO Germany oversees the development 
activities. Technological development takes place 
in the context of more than 50 working groups with 
input from more than 500 experts.
10 .3 Technical support
PI supports more than 50 accredited PICCs 
worldwide. These facilities provide users and 
manufacturers with all kinds of advice and support. 
As institutions of PI, they are independent service 
providers and adhere to mutually agreed upon 
PAGE 34
PROFIBUS System Description28
regulations. The PICCs are regularly checked for 
their suitability as part of an individually tailored 
accreditation process. Current addresses can be 
found on the PI website.
10 .4 Certification
PI supports 10 accredited PITLs worldwide, which 
assist in the certification of products with a 
PROFIBUS/PROFINET interface. As institutions of PI, 
they are independent service providers and adhere 
to mutually agreed upon regulations. The testing 
services provided by the PITLs are regularly audited 
in accordance with a strict accreditation process 
to ensure that they meet the necessary quality 
requirements. Current addresses can be found on 
the PI website.
10 .5 Training
The PITCs have been set up with the specific aim 
of establishing a global training standard for 
engineers and installation technicians. The Training 
Centers and their experts are officially accredited. 
Their competence with respect to PROFIBUS and 
PROFINET training and the associated engineering 
and installation services had been checked. A three 
days training "PROFIsafe Certified Designer" exists 
for PROFIsafe. Current addresses can be found on 
the PI website.
10 .6 Internet
Available on the PI website www.profibus.com is 
actual information about the organization of PI 
and the PROFIBUS and PROFINET technologies. 
An online-product finder, a glossary, diverse 
web-based trainings are to be found there, as 
well as the download area with specifications, 
application profiles, installation guidelines, and 
other documents.
PAGE 35
PROFIBUS System Description 
Technology and Application
Version April 2016 
Order Number 4.332
Publisher:
PROFIBUS Nutzerorganisation e. V. (PNO)
PROFIBUS & PROFINET International (PI)
Haid-und-Neu-Str. 7  ·  76131 Karlsruhe  ·  Germany
Phone: +49 721 96 58 590  ·  Fax: +49 721 96 58 589 
E-Mail:  info@profibus.com
www.profibus.com  ·  www.profinet.com
Exclusion of liability
Although the PROFIBUS Nutzerorganisation e.V. (PNO) has taken the most care in compiling the 
information contained in this brochure, it cannot guarantee that the content is completely error-free, 
and the PROFIBUS Nutzerorganisation e.V. (PNO) can assume no liability, regardless of the legal basis 
for any potential claims. The information in this brochure is reviewed on a regular basis. Any necessary 
corrections will be made in subsequent editions. We would be grateful for any suggestions as to how 
the content could be improved.
 
Any designations that appear in this brochure could potentially constitute trademarks. Any use of such 
trademarks by third parties for their own ends risks infringing the rights of the proprietors concerned.
 
This brochure is not intended to serve as a substitute for the relevant IEC standards, such as IEC 61158 
and IEC 61784, or the relevant specifications and guidelines of PROFIBUS & PROFINET International. In 
case of doubt, these standards, specifications, and guidelines are authoritative.
© Copyright by PROFIBUS Nutzerorganisation e.V. (PNO) 2016. All rights reserved.
PAGE 36
For additional information  
and contact information, go to: 
www.profibus.com/pi-organization/
Worldwide support with PI!
PROFIBUS Nutzerorganisation e. V. (PNO)
PROFIBUS & PROFINET International (PI)
Haid-und-Neu-Str. 7  ·  76131 Karlsruhe  ·  Germany
Phone:  +49 721 96 58 590  ·  Fax:  +49 721 96 58 589
E-Mail:  info@profibus.com
www.profibus.com  ·  www.profinet.com
© Copyright by PI 4/16 – all rights reserved – 4.332
Regional PI 
Association 
(RPA)
PI Compe-
tence Center 
(PICC)
PI Training 
Center  
(PITC)
PI Test Lab  
(PITL)
Regional PI Associations (RPAs) represent PI around the world and are your personal local  
contacts. They are responsible for local marketing activities for purposes of spreading  
PROFIBUS, PROFINET, and IO-Link, which include among others trade fair appearances,  
seminars, workshops, and press conferences, as well as public relations activities.
The PI Competence Centers (PICCs) collaborate closely with the RPAs and are your first 
point of contact when you have technical questions. The PICCs are available to assist you 
in the development of PROFIBUS or PROFINET devices and the commissioning of systems, 
and they provide user support and training.
PI Training Centers (PITCs) support users and developers in gaining experience with the  
PROFIBUS and PROFINET technologies and their possible uses. Individuals who 
success fully com plete the final exam of the Certified Installer or Engineer course  
receive a certificate from PI.
PI Test Labs (PITLs) are authorized by PI to conduct certification tests for PROFIBUS and  
PROFINET. You receive a certificate from PI for your product once it passes the test. The 
certification program plays a major role in the sustainable quality assurance of products 
and thus assures that the systems in use exhibit a high level of trouble-free operation and  
availability.