OS81050 Data Sheet Copyright © 2003-2010 SMSC. DS81050AP11
Oct. 2010 Page 1
OS81050
INIC Processor
INIC Software Stack
INIC:
FBlock
NBMIN:
FBlock
Control Port
MediaLB Port
Streaming Port
Network Port
Power Monitor
& Control
Debug Port
Clock Manager
OS81050 INIC
MOST25 Intelligent Network Interface Controller
Features
/square6Complete MOST® Network Interface on a single chip
/square6Embedded MOST Network management
— Network protection mode
— Hardware and application watchdog timer
— Intelligent muting
/square6Media Local Bus (MediaLB ®) Port
— Supports all MOST data types
— Eases inter-chip communication and streaming
— MediaLB 3-pin interface at speeds up to 1024 ×Fs
— Legacy MediaLB 5-pin interface at speeds up to 512 ×Fs
/square6Control Port supports I 2C format for control 
messages and asynchronous packets
/square6Streaming Port supports up to four serial interfaces 
for synchronous data
/square6Dedicated application reset output
/square6External switching power supply synchronization 
output
/square644-pin QFP or ETQFP package
/square6Operating voltages 3.3/2.5 V
General Description
The OS81050 is a highly integrated Intelligent Network
Interface Controller  (INIC) for the 24.5 Mbps MOST
Network (MOST25) with an optical physical layer
(oPHY).
INIC provides encapsulation of all low-level functions
necessary to develop a MOST-compliant device,
significantly simplifying MOST implementation in a
node. Supervision of the application is also provided,
including a protection mode that is entered when an
application is not present (i.e. start-up) or the External
Host Controller (EHC) malfunctions. This protection
mode prevents application malfunctions from
influencing the integrity of the network and the system.
INIC includes the INIC Software Stack , which provides
MOST-compliant real-time behavior. Integration of the
INIC Software Stack  significantly relieves the EHC from
real-time processing tasks.
INIC makes a MOST device accessible according to the
rules of the MOST Specification, even without
participation from the EHC. When the EHC is engaged,
a message-based interface, as opposed to a register-
based interface, is available for communication with
INIC. Configuration is encapsulated within a Function
Block (FBlock INIC) which allows the EHC to manage
INIC in the same way as other functions in the system.