OS81050 Data Sheet Copyright © 2003-2010 SMSC. DS81050AP11
Page 3
OS81050
Conventions
Within this manual, the following abbreviations and symbols are used to improve readability. 
TrueAuto™
TrueAuto is SMSC's automotive quality process. It has proven its ability to deliver leading-edge quality and
services for IC device products to fulfill the needs of the most demanding automotive customers. TrueAuto
is a proven total automotive-grade quality approach. TrueAuto IC device robustness begins with SMSC's
design for reliability techniques within the silicon IC itself: automotive-grade robustness and testability are
designed into the IC. Once available in silicon, the IC is fully-characterized and qualified over a multitude of
operating parameters to prove quality under the harshest conditions. In this, SMSC's TrueAuto approach
significantly exceeds the usual automotive reliability standards and customer- specific requirements and
goes far beyond the stress tests prescribed by the AEC-Q100 specifications. During the fabrication of
TrueAuto products, extensive technologies and processes, such as enhanced monitors are used in order
to continuously drive improvements in accordance with SMSC's zero Defects per Million (DPM) goals.
Example Description
BIT Name of a single bit within a field
FIELD.BIT Name of a single bit (BIT) in FIELD
x…y Range from x to y, inclusive
BITS[m:n] Groups of bits from m to n, inclusive
PIN Pin Name
msb, lsb Most significant bit, least significant bit
MSB, LSB Most significant byte, least significant byte
zzzzb Binary number (value zzzz)
0xzzz Hexadecimal number (value zzz)
zzh Hexadecimal number (value zz)
rsvd Reserved memory location. Must write 0, read value indeterminate
code Instruction code, or API function or parameter
Multi Word Name Used for multiple words that are considered a single unit, such as:
Resource Allocate message, or Connection Label, or Decrement Stack Pointer instruction.
Section Name Section or Document name.
VAL Over-bar indicates active low pin or register bit
x Don’t care
<Parameter> <> indicate a Parameter is optional or is only used under some conditions
{,Parameter} Braces indicate Parameter(s) that repeat one or more times.
[Parameter] Brackets indicate a nested Parameter. This Parameter is not real and actually decodes 
into one or more real parameters.