OS81050 Data Sheet Copyright © 2003-2010 SMSC. DS81050AP11
Page 8
OS81050
1.1  MOST25 Network
To minimize costs, the MOST Network supports a peer-to-peer methodology, eliminating excessive hard-
ware overhead such as a hub (although hub-based architectures can also be implemented). In addition to
handling network interface and communication management functions, the OS81050 INIC also handles all
of the important low-level network management functions; such as node position sensing (Plug-and-Play),
network delay detection, start up and shut down. Other features include: error reporting, fail-safe opera-
tion, and channel allocation. Placing these features in hardware off-loads the EHC, allowing it to focus on
higher-level network functions.
The MOST Network contains multiple simultaneous networks operating across a single medium. Once
bandwidth is allocated, each network (or data transfer method ) operates independently (not affecting the
others), providing a robust, dependable, and det erministic system architecture. The OS81050 INIC
supports the following data transfer methods, including:
/square6 Control Network - consists of a single control channel
/square6 Asynchronous (Packet) Network - consists of a single packet channel
/square6 Synchronous Streaming Network - consists of one or more synchronous streaming channels
1.1.1   Control Network
The MOST Control Network  consists of a single control channel, shared by all network nodes. Messages
transported across this channel adhere to the MOST Control Message  (MCM) format and are used to man-
age the network and exchange control data among nodes. Any network node that needs to transmit a con-
trol message must arbitrate for the channel.
INIC monitors the control channel on the Network Port by default and uses information in the message
header to determine whether the node is the intended receiver of the control message. When a control
message is to be received (e.g. node address match), it is buffered within INIC. For MCMs, the application
is notified of the message reception and the packet is retrieved by the EHC via one of the OS81050 hard-
ware ports that supports control message exchange (see Table 1-1).
1.1.2   Asynchronous (Packet) Network
The MOST Asynchronous Network  consists of a single packet channel, shared by all network nodes. Applica-
tions use this channel to transmit large data packets (e.g. navigation maps) in bursts to other network
nodes. Data packets on the packet channel are referred to as asynchronous packets  and adhere to the
MOST Data Packet (MDP) format. Any network node that needs to transmit a data packet can arbitrate for
the packet channel.
INIC monitors the packet channel on the Network Port by default and uses information in the packet
header to determine whether the node is the intended receiver. When an asynchronous packet is to be
received (e.g. node address match), it is buffered within INIC and made available to the application at one
of the OS81050 hardware ports that supports asynchronous packets (see Table 1-1).
1.1.3   Synchronous Streaming Network
The MOST Synchronous Streaming Network  can consist of multiple synchronous streaming channels, each
transporting raw, real-time synchronous data (e.g. audio, video). The data on a synchronous streaming
channel is sourced by a single transmitting node that has been granted channel bandwidth. Synchronous
streaming channels are broadcast, making the data available for reception by one or more sink nodes.
For high-speed synchronous data, INIC acts like a cross-point switch to connect synchronous streaming
channels to sources/sinks attached to OS81050 hardware ports that support synchronous data (see
Table 1-1).