OS81050
OS81050 Data Sheet Copyright © 2003-2010 SMSC. DS81050AP11
Page 9
1.2  INIC Processor
The INIC Processor manages the transfer of data to and from the network. The Network Port connects the
INIC Processor to the network using the OS81050 network transmission and reception pins ( TX and RX).
These Network Port reception and transmission pins require connection to external physical layer circuitry:
a Fiber Optic Transmitter (FOX) driving an LED on the transmit side and a Fiber Optic Receiver (FOR) with
a photodiode on the receive side.
Working in conjunction with the Clock Manager, the Network Port recovers the network clock, decodes
received data, and passes the data to the INIC Processor. The INIC Processor then routes data to the
appropriate destinations on and off the chip.
The network frame to be transmitted by the OS81050 is constructed by the INIC Processor by combining
incoming network data from the Network Port with outgoing data from other on-chip resources. The Net-
work Port then encodes the data for network transmission.
The INIC Software Stack  runs on the INIC Processor and configures the Network Port at power up, which
allows the network to become fully operational without any external protocol stack. This has been accom-
plished by placing all the lower layers of the ISO protocol stack inside of the device. In addition to the INIC
Software Stack , the INIC Processor supports two groups of functions: FBlock  NBMIN  and FBlock INIC.
Figure 1-1 illustrates the position of the INIC Software Stack within the ISO software model.
Each network node contains a general set of functions, referred to as the FBlock NetBlock functions.
INIC manages network-related NetBlock functions and the EHC manages the higher-level NetBlock
functions. To discern between these two sections of the FBlock  NetBlock, the INIC portion is referred to
as NBMIN and the EHC portion is labeled NBEHC.
FBlock INIC contains functions used to configure the chip. This includes the setup of hardware ports and
the utilization of network bandwidth for transporting streaming data.
The upper levels of the network protocol must be implemented by an EHC that is capable of processing
the user application with the minimal overhead imposed by the INIC API. During real-time operation, the
EHC and the INIC Software Stack  within the INIC Processor communicate using control messages via the
MediaLB Port or the Control Port.