OS81050
OS81050 Data Sheet Copyright © 2003-2010 SMSC. DS81050AP11
Page 11
MediaLB is a token-passing bus, where the Controller manages the token and generates the data clock.
The Controller passes the token by sending out a ChannelAddress on the signal information line. The
ChannelAddresses are pre-assigned by the board integrator and ar e associated with a specific transmitting
Device and a receiving Device. Once the transmitting Device associated with the ChannelAddress is granted
bus access, it can send one quadlet of data on the MediaLB data line after a defined time delay. The
Device provides information about the data being transmitted by simultaneously sending out a command
on the signal information line. After receiving the ChannelAddress, the receiving Device must decide whether to
receive the associated message or reject it. A status byte from the receiving Device is placed on the signal
information line, one byte after the command from the sending Device is received. Once per network
frame, the Controller generates a unique pattern ( FRAMESYNC) on the signal information line. This defines
the MediaLB frame edge, as well as the byte boundary of signal and data lines for all Devices. 
Since MediaLB is a high-speed bus, connections to external devices should be implemented in hardware
and not bit-banged on generic ports. A MediaLB Device interface, in the form of VHDL code, is available
from SMSC. For more information about the Media Local Bus, refer to the MediaLB Specification [3].
EHC devices without an integrated MediaLB interface can use one of SMSC’s I/O Companion  devices
(IOCs) as a communication bridge between the OS81050 MediaLB Port and a parallel, SRAM-like EHC
interface. For example, the IOC Host Bus Interface (HBI) is a 16-bit parallel communication interface for
exchange of all network data types. This HBI Port is easily accommodated by EHCs with a generic SRAM
port. In addition to serving as a communication bridge between its MediaLB and HBI Ports, the IOC pro-
vides hardware port expansion to the application via the MediaLB Port, as described in Section 1.3.5.
1.3.3   Streaming Port
The Streaming Port provides a gateway for synchronous data exchange between the OS81050 and exter-
nal legacy devices. Depending on the configuration of the OS81050, the Streaming Port supports up to
four serial data pins, which share a common synchronization signal and bit clock. The data format of the
Streaming Port is compatible with industry-standard serial interfaces found on many ADCs, DACs and
other devices.
1.3.4   Control Port
The Control Port operates as an I 2C bus slave and supports asynchronous packet and control message
exchange. An interrupt pin ( INT) is used to notify the EHC when Control Port servicing is required (e.g.
control message or asynchronous packet received). While the EHC can communicate with the OS81050
over the Control Port alone, the I2C data rate limits throughput on the Application Layer. Application perfor-
mance can be maximized by using the MediaLB Port to transport all network data types. Configuring and
enabling of the MediaLB Port is supported via the I 2C Control Port.