OS81050
OS81050 Data Sheet Copyright © 2003-2010 SMSC. DS81050AP11
Page 13
1.4  MOST NetServices
The division of services between the OS81050 INIC and the EHC in MOST applications is illustrated in
Figure 1-3. To accelerate development of MOST applications that use INIC, SMSC offers the MOST
NetServices API, which provides a seamless software interface between INIC and the EHC. A software
library is available to provide all services that are relevant for:
/square6 exchanging application data on the MOST Network,
/square6 managing hardware port data connections (e.g. sockets),
/square6 managing high-level system tasks, and
/square6 using control messages to access INIC for specific operations.
The MOST NetServices code incorporated into the EHC is divided into two distinct components:
Basic Services (Layer I) and Applications Socket (Layer II).
The Basic Services component provides the facilities that enable direct communication with INIC, including:
a low-level driver for message exchange, message management services, and data wrappers. When
transmitting data from the EHC to INIC, the wrapper modules pass data to the message management ser-
vices. Formatted messages are then sent by the low-level driver across the interface between the EHC
and INIC. When receiving data from INIC, the wrappers reformat the data for compatibility with the MOST
NetServices code that resides on the EHC.
The Applications Socket component resides on top of Basic Services and provides the FBlock NBEHC services
required to implement the full FBlock NetBlock on the node. This component also contains a command
interpreter, which provides a simple API for developing application FBlocks (e.g. FBlock AudioAmp).
MOST NetServices code is modular, allowing it to be customized for a particular application. Implemented
in ANSI C, the MOST NetServices API can be adapted for individual requirements through configuration
files.
With respect to the ISO communications model (shown in Figure 1-1):
/square6 External components (e.g. FOX and FOR) connect the OS81050 and the MOST Network, supporting 
the Physical Layer.
/square6 OS81050 supports the Data Link Layer up to a portion of the Session Layer.
/square6 The EHC must provide the remaining portion of the Session Layer, the Presentation Layer, and the 
Application Layer. When the MOST NetServices code is integrated:
/square6 the Basic Services component provides the remaining portion of the Session Layer, and
/square6 the Application Socket component provides the Presentation Layer and a portion of the Application Layer.
The OS8105x/6x INIC API User’s Manual [2] defines the FBlocks (and all associated functions) that are sup-
ported by the OS81050.