OS81050
OS81050 Data Sheet Copyright © 2003-2010 SMSC. DS81050AP11
Page 23
4 Port Message Protocol
All message-based data (includes control messages and asynchronous packets) transferred up or down
the INIC Software Stack adheres to the same low-level message format (defined as a Port Message) regard-
less of the physical hardware port used.
Control messages (e.g. MCMs, ICMs) are used to access the FBlock of a network node. MCMs are typi-
cally routed through INIC (between the network control channel and the INIC Message Interface), using
either the MCM Rx FIFO  or the MCM Tx FIFO , depending on the direction of transport. ICMs target the
FBlock INIC and are exchanged exclusively between INIC and the EHC, using either the ICM Rx FIFO  or
the ICM Tx FIFO, depending on the direction of transport.
Asynchronous packets (e.g. MDPs) are routed between the network packet channel and the INIC Message
Interface, using either the MDP Rx FIFO or the MDP Tx FIFO, depending on the direction of transport.
4.1  Generic Port Messages
A generic Port Message consists of three main fields:
/square6 Port Message Length (PML) - This 16-bit field indicates the total number of bytes that follow in the Port 
Message, including the message overhead and payload.
/square6 Port Message Header (PMH) - This field contains the Port Message overhead and defines the format of 
the payload data that follows.
/square6 Port Message Body (PMB) - This field contains the message payload whose format is dependant on the 
preceding header.
Figure 4-1 illustrates the generic format of the Port Message.
Five types of specific Port Messages are defined, each associated with a specific operation to be performed
on the targeted FIFO:
/square6 FIFO Command - Writes commands to the INIC Message Interface
/square6 FIFO Status Read - Reads FIFO status information from the INIC Message Interface
/square6 FIFO Status Write - Sends an acknowledge to the INIC Message Interface when a data message is read
/square6 FIFO Data Write - Writes a message into a particular FIFO
/square6 FIFO Data Read - Reads a message out of a particular FIFO
The following pages outline the basic structure of the Port Messages. For more information on the software-
controlled, sub-fields of the Port Messages, see the OS8105x/6x INIC API User’s Manual [2].
PML PM Header (PMH) PM Body (PMB)
Port Message (PM)
Figure 4-1: Generic Port Message Format