OS81050 Data Sheet Copyright © 2003-2010 SMSC. DS81050AP11
Page 30
OS81050
5.2  Reading from the Control Port
The beginning of transmission is marked by a start condition. The first byte specifies the chip address, as
well as whether the operation is a read or a wr ite. The OS81050 address (Factory default of 0100000)
occupies the upper seven bits of the first byte; the R/W  bit is the LSB.
When the Control Port receives the address byte of 41h (Factory default OS81050 address and R/W  bit
set), it acknowledges reception of the byte through an acknowledge bit and the rest of the data is read from
the Control Port. The read data is defined as the Port Message (PM) and can be one of the following:
/square6 FIFO Data (Read) message
/square6 FIFO Status (Read) message
Figure 5-4 illustrates the I 2C transmission read sequence. The characters “S” and “P” represent the start
and stop conditions for messages.
The INT pin going low indicates that a Port Message is available in at least one of the message FIFOs.
Once a message starts being read, the INT pin is de-asserted. If other messages are pending (waiting to
be read), the INT pin will be assert ed again. This pending interrupt can occur as soon as the last byte of
the current Port Message is read.
If a Port Message is not fully read (stop or repeated start bit received before the end of the message), INT
will be reasserted and the next read command will start reading from the beginning of the disrupted mes-
sage, not the position where the read was previously terminated.
Ideally, the EHC reads the entire length of the Port Message in one Control Port r ead cycle, where the total
number of bytes read is extracted from the Port  Message Length (PML) duri ng the read cycle. For I2C driv-
ers that are not able to decipher the message length during a single read cycle, other methods of reading
the Port Message are feasible, including the following:
/square6 Example 1: The EHC may issue two consecutive Control Port reads. The first cycle reads two bytes of 
the Port Message, where PML is extracted. Based on the message length obtained from PML in this 
first read cycle, a second cycle reads the entire Port Message (including the first two bytes again).
/square6 Example 2: The EHC may issue read cycles that always read the maximum length of a Port Message, 
regardless of the actual PML. Once the Port Message is read, application software can later determine 
the relevant portion of the read data using the actual PML. The OS81050 returns 00h data when a 
read cycle extends beyond the actual length of the Port Message.
External
System:
Control Port:
Start bit
Part Address
Read
Acknowledge
R/W
A Data1 DataN P
Acknowledge
Stop bit
S 01000 1A
No Acknowledge
SDA 00 D a t a 2
Acknowledge
A
Port Message (PM)
FIFO Data BodyPML PMHL FDHFPH
FIFO Status ReadPML PMHL FPHFIFO Status Read message:
FIFO Data Read message:
Figure 5-4: Control Port Read Sequence