OS81050
OS81050 Data Sheet Copyright © 2003-2010 SMSC. DS81050AP11
Page 31
6 MediaLB Port
The Media Local Bus  (MediaLB) Port gives external devices (e.g. the External Host Controller) real-time
access to all supported types of data on the MOST Network. The MediaLB Port and the Streaming Port
share some pins; therefore, some Streaming and MediaLB modes are mutually exclusive.
The MediaLB Port can be configured for one of the following operational modes:
/square6 MediaLB 3-pin Mode - When configured in this mode, the MediaLB Port provides a 3-pin interface that 
supports a maximum data rate of 1024 ×Fs (49.152 MHz at Fs=48 kHz). In this mode, the Streaming 
Port may be configured with up to two serial interfaces for accessing synchronous network data.
/square6 MediaLB 5-pin Mode - When configured in this mode, the MediaLB Port provides a 5-pin interface that 
supports a maximum data rate of 512 ×Fs (24.576 MHz at Fs=48 kHz). In this mode, the Streaming 
Port is not available.
MediaLB bandwidth is managed in quadlets (4 bytes) and consists of a combination of streaming, packet,
and control data. The MediaLB Port rate of 256 ×Fs supports up to seven quadlets of data, divided among
streaming, packet, and control data types. The MediaLB Port rate of 512 ×Fs supports up to 15 quadlets of
data. The MediaLB Port rate of 1024 ×Fs supports up to 31 quadlets of data. A maximum of 64 bytes can
be transferred per frame, in either direction, for the Streaming Port and MediaLB Port combined.
When transmitting data onto the network, the MSB is transmitted first. To comply with the MOST Specifica-
tion [1], when transmitting multi-byte words, the most significant byte should be transmitted first. In addi-
tion, when transmitting stereo data, left should be sent before right.
The MediaLB Port can be enabled by default after power-up/reset based on the INIC Configuration String . If
the MediaLB Port is not enabled by default at power-up/reset, it can be manually enabled and configured
via ICMs through the Control Port, if desired. The MediaLB Port is enabled automatically at power-up/reset
under one of the following two conditions:
/square6 PortConfiguration.DefPort()  is set to MediaLB, or
/square6 PortConfiguration.DefPort()  is set to INT_Select and INT is pulled low.
When the MediaLB Port is enabled at power-up/reset, the Factory default mode and speed is 3-pin mode
at 512×Fs. This default mode can be changed through the Customer Configuration Interface , as described in
Section 13.5.
Although INT is not used for MediaLB communications, if pulled high, it can be used to wake up the EHC
after a device shut-down. See the ShutDown() function in the OS8105x/6x INIC API User’s Manual  [2] for
more information.
After reset, and following MediaLB Port initialization, the first INIC message sent to the EHC indicates the
OS81050 is initialized and ready to communicate with the EHC.
AllFIFOs:Status(SyncS, StartUp)
In common applications, this message is used to instruct the EHC to synchronize its FIFOs. Additionally,
the EHC may start synchronization of the OS81050 by sending the following message:
AllFIFOs:Command(SyncC)
The OS81050 responds to the above message once the synchronization is complete. This procedure
ensures that OS81050 and the EHC can synchronize communication under various circumstances. The
status message sent by the OS81050 is:
AllFIFOs:Status(SyncS, SyncRcvd)