OS81050
OS81050 Data Sheet Copyright © 2003-2010 SMSC. DS81050AP11
Page 45
8 External Power Management
The OS81050 INIC supports external power management logic by providing two inputs ( PS0 and PS1) and
one output (PWROFF). The PS0 and PS1 inputs convey status of the external power management logic. The
PWROFF output pin is driven low during normal operation and released when the OS81050 INIC is ready to
be powered-off by the external power management logic.
The PS0 and PS1 inputs should indicate power management status, and communicate when an external
power management event has occurred. Table 8-1 describes the power management states that are
defined by the MOST Specification [1] and should be communicated via PS0 and PS1. More information on
system-wide INIC power management architectures can be found in the MOST INIC Hardware Concepts
Technical Bulletin [8].
Hardware recognizes an external power management state when PS0 and PS1 remain at a valid logic level
for a minimum time, t pshold (see Section 11.5.2); however, the INIC Software Stack  may use longer hold
times for PS0 and PS1 states before responding to an external power management event. In addition, the
INIC Software Stack  controls how INIC responds to external power management events (e.g. driving
PWROFF). If external power management is not used, PS0 and PS1 should be pulled to ground.
INIC recognizes an STP event upon power-up (or reset) and on a transition to PS[1:0] = 01. If these pins
continue to indicate an STP event ( PS[1:0] = 01) after an STP event has already been recognized, then the
last known power state is assumed. If an STP event is indicated directly after power-up (or reset), then the
UNormal state is assumed. An STP event can cause INIC to enter Ring-Break Diagnosis  mode, based on the
RBDOptions() function parameter settings. See the OS8105x/6x INIC API User’s Manual [2] for more infor-
mation.
In a typical application, as illustrated in Figure 8-1, the power management circuitry is powered by a
continuous supply and manages the switched power to the rest of the node. This circuitry also monitors the
activity signal ( STATUS) coming from the Fiber Optic Receiver (FOR) of the physical layer. When network
activity is detected, the circuitry enables the switched supply and drives the PS[1:0] pins to the proper state,
as depicted in Figure 8-2. When INIC powers up, it could take up to  tstp time for INIC to recognize the
PS[1:0] state. When INIC is ready for shut down (such as when U Low state is recognized), it drives the
PWROFF pin high.
Additionally, when the U Low state is recognized, ERR/BOOT is driven high and the network output ( TX) is
switched off. As long as the U Low state is indicated on PS[1:0], the TX output remains disabled, regardless
of activity on RX.
If the EHC requires time after power-up (or re set) for initialization, it could utilize a PWRHOLD line that the
circuitry detects. The use of PWRHOLD would suspend node power-down until the EHC is ready.
The PMIConfig() property specifies whether INIC drives PWROFF active when the network is shut down
(NetInterface: Off state). Parameters optionally limit INIC from driving PWROFF (as a result of NetInterface:
Off state) in specific EHCI states (e.g. EHCIState()). This property is set in the INIC Configuration String
(see the OS8105x/6x INIC API User’s Manual [2] for more information).
PS1 PS0 Status
00 UNormal 
0 1 Switch-To-Power (STP)
10 UCritical, USuper
11 ULow 
Table 8-1: External Power Management States