OS81050
OS81050 Data Sheet Copyright © 2003-2010 SMSC. DS81050AP11
Page 47
9 Clock Manager
The Clock Manager generates all internal clocks and two external clocks, RMCK and SYNC. The RMCK
output clock supports synchronization of external devices. The SYNC output clock supports synchroniza-
tion of switching power supplies. As shown in Figure 9-1, the Clock Manager consists of an input clock
multiplexer, an analog PLL, and output clock dividers. The analog PLL generates the main clock, which is
then divided down to generate all other internal clocks.
When configured as the network timing-master, the input clock multiplexer selects an external crystal oscil-
lator (XTI/XTO) as the PLL locking source. While reset is asserted, the crystal oscillator is disabled and the
PLL is pulled below the normal operating frequency. When reset is de-asserted, the crystal oscillator is
automatically enabled and the PLL begins to lock.
For network timing-slave devices, the PLL is clocked from the network interface ( RX). When not locked to
the network, the external crystal oscillator is enabled in order to keep the PLL locked to a nominal fre-
quency. Using the external crystal input allows INIC to lock faster when the network interface recovers and
keeps all local clocks ( RMCK, MLBCLK, SCK, etc.) close to the locked network frequency.
9.1  PLL Lock Status
When the OS81050 initially obtains lock, it takes three frames to synchronize streaming data. Therefore,
streaming data will not be transferred properly between t he network and any open source or sink ports for
three frames when going from the unlock to lock state. While the PLL is unlocked, only control messages
targeting the local FBlock INIC or NBMIN can be transferred (via the Control Port or MediaLB Port). 
Network unlock/lock events can affect the behavior of the ERR/BOOT pin, based on the MuteMode() set-
ting. (For more information on the use of ERR/BOOT for lock/unlock detection, refer to the
OS8105x/6x INIC API User’s Manual [2].)
A valid and continuous external reference clock ( XTI/XTO) must be present for normal
operation. If the reference clock is disabled during operation, INIC may become inopera-
ble and/or the PLL lock status may not be accurately reflected by the ERR/BOOT pin. A
reset and valid reference clock is required to recover from this condition.
RX
XTO
XTI
PLL
RMCK
Internal
Clocks
FLT
SYNC Divider
Divider
RMCK()SYNC()
DeviceMode()
ClockMode()
ERR/BOOT
Figure 9-1: Clock Manager