OS81050
OS81050 Data Sheet Copyright © 2003-2010 SMSC. DS81050AP11
Page 67
13.4  Other Application Pins
The FLT pin is a high-impedance node; therefore, leakage should be kept below 1 μA or average pulse-
width distortion tolerance could be adversely affected. In order to minimize vibration and shock effects on
PLL locking, the capacitor used on FLT should be tolerant of vibrations typical in the application. Capaci-
tors with X7R dielectrics are more sensitive to shock than metal-film, tantalum, and other ceramic capaci-
tors, such as C0G and X8R. The tolerance of the FLT capacitor must not vary by more than 20 % over all
conditions. This includes the tolerance attributed to process, as well as degradation over life and tempera-
ture. Since component selection (and layout) of the FLT circuitry impact the sensitivity to vibrations, each
design should be tested over the full environmental stress conditions of the intended application.
For normal operation, the ERR/BOOT pin should be pulled to 2.5 V. In order to support the Customer Configu-
ration Interface, the on-board pull-up resistor on ERR/BOOT must not be less than 10 kΩ; however, the actual
resistor value should be chosen based on the input leakage of the INIC pin and on the other devices con-
nected to the line. Note that ERR/BOOT may be pulled up to 3.3 V, however a small amount of power will be
wasted since, after initialization, this pin is an output driven at a 2.5 V level.
The OS81050 RSOUT pin is an optional output that allows INIC to reset the EHC. When used, the RSOUT
pin should be pulled high by an on-board resistor (10 kΩ recommended) and connected to the Reset pin of
the EHC. The INIC RSOUT line should be isolated from other signals that may reset the EHC (e.g. do not
wire-or with other open-drain lines). INIC drives RSOUT low to reset the EHC when one of two events
occurs:
/square6 the Reset.Start(Target)  INIC function is called and the Target parameter specifies the EHC as 
the device to be reset, or
/square6 the watchdog timer expires and the WatchdogMode() INIC function indicates the EHC should be 
reset.
The length of the reset pulse on RSOUT is 10 ms. For more information on the RSOUT pin, refer to the
OS8105x/6x INIC API User’s Manual [2].
When an external crystal is used, the XTI and XTO pins should be connected directly to the crystal (e.g. no
series resistance). The crystal used must be 256 ×Fs and should comply with the specifications outlined in
Section 13.6. If an external clock is used in lieu of a crystal oscillator, it must be connected to XTI and sup-
port drive levels to the 2.5 V supply (as specified in Section 11.4).
The JTAG Port pins TMS, TCK, TDI, and TDO require pull-up resistors to 3.3 V, regardless of whether or
not the JTAG port is used.
When the 2.5 V OS81050 digital pins interface with external logic, level-translation may be
required if the external logic is controlled by a different supply voltage.