OS81050
OS81050 Data Sheet Copyright © 2003-2010 SMSC. DS81050AP11
Page 73
13.7.1   Power and Decoupling
A decoupling capacitor should be used at each OS81050 power pin for localized decoupling. For EMI-sen-
sitive applications, C0G capacitors are strongly recommended for their superior performance at high fre-
quencies. To reduce trace impedance and keep the loop areas small, decoupling capacitors should be
positioned as close as possible to the OS81050. Two vias to the ground plane should be used to minimize
inductance.
The recommended placement of decoupling capacitors is on the same side of the PCB as the OS81050.
However, decoupling capacitors may be mounted on the opposite side of the PCB to reduce the distance
between the capacitor and the pin, as inductance from vias is less harmful than long traces that may allow
external interference.
In situations where both large (e.g. electrolytic or tantalum) and small (e.g. ceramic) capacitors are used,
the smaller capacitor should take priority for placement and layout optimization.
As in all low-noise circuits, two vias should be used from power and ground traces to the respective power
and ground planes to reduce parasitic inductance, whenever possible. Additionally, power traces should be
as wide as practical and all OS81050 ground pins (digital and analog) should be tied to the same ground
plane.
Ground-plane fill is used under the part to minimize the impedance between ground pins, which also helps
minimize EMI. If ground-plane fill must be broken by a trace, multiple stitching vias should connect each
section of the fill to a reference ground plane on another layer. Vias that connect high frequency decou-
pling capacitors to the ground plane should be as close as possible to the OS81050 to minimize loop area
back to the chip ground pins.
13.7.2   Physical Layer
For optimum performance, careful attention should be given to the routing and placement of physical layer
components. The transmit and receive lines between INIC and the FOT are single-ended transmission
lines which must be implemented on the PCB as impedance controlled traces (e.g. 50Ω).
When possible, the transmit and receive lines should be routed on a single layer and the use of vias should
be minimized. Additionally, traces should be routed over a continuous reference plane, preferably a ground
plane. To minimize reflections, two 45 degree turns should be used rather than a single 90 degree turn.
Crosstalk can be avoided by not running other signals in parallel to the transmit and receive lines for long
distances.
The distance between the OS81050 and the FOT should be as short as possible. The series termination
resistors should be placed as close as possible to the driving source (e.g. the INIC TX pin and the FOT RX
Data pin). Ground plane fill should not be too close to the RX data path, as it adds capacitance which can
negatively impact PWD performance.
13.7.3   MediaLB Interfaces
The OS81050 Media Local Bus  (MediaLB) 3-pin and 5-pin interfaces are provided to facilitate high-speed
data exchange between INIC and the EHC. MediaLB is intended for use on a single PCB. For effective
operation, especially at higher bus speeds, signal routing and component placement is extremely impor-
tant.
Refer to the MediaLB Specification [3] for application guidelines, including layout examples.