PDF_PAGE1
plug and play – Sercos, 
the automation bus
PDF_PAGE2
Sercos – the automation bus: one of the leading bus systems for applica-
tions in industrial sectors for over 25 years. The real-time technology with 
its millionfold proven quality, the universal application possibilities and high 
security of investments make the Ethernet system the first choice in  
mechanical engineering and construction.
Mechanical engineers and users benefit from a wide 
range of advantages:
Sercos III  I  Introduction Advantages and benefits  I  Sercos III
02 03
An efficient and deterministic communication protocol 
based on an optical transmission system not susceptible 
to interference is the foundation for Sercos’ success; 
today Sercos® is used successfully in the most varied 
sectors and applications. Sercos has established itself 
as the de facto standard on all large automation markets 
when dealing with challenging applications that place 
great demands on dynamics and precision. However, 
Sercos does not only specify a real-time-enabled com-
munication system, but goes a lot further and specifies 
over 700 standardized parameters which describe the 
interaction between control systems, drives and other 
peripheral devices using universal semantics. 
This creates a basis upon which devices from different 
manufacturers can be combined without any problems. 
Today, over 5 million real-time nodes are being used on  
a daily basis in over 600,000 applications.
Sercos III – universal communication for distributed 
automation solutions
Industrial automation requires real-time-enabled and 
manufacturer-independent communication solutions.  
Different kinds of automation devices must be able to  
be easily and universally connected. The open, IEC 
consistent universal bus for Ethernet-based real-time 
communication, Sercos III, meets these demands today 
with a wide variety of benefits.
Advantages and benefits at a glance
Proven
■■ Sercos is an open, international standard 
(IEC 61784, IEC 61158, IEC 61800-7). 
■■ Complete backwards compatibility ensures that  
it is a long-term investment.
■■ Leading suppliers of automation systems back Sercos  
with broad product portfolios.
■■ Sercos technology is widely accepted in many industries,  
in particular for high-end applications.
■■ More than five million real-time nodes are currently being 
used in more than 600,000 applications – and the numbers 
are growing every day.
■■ Ethernet-standard IEEE 802.3 physics and protocol  
are used.
Simple
■■ Sercos devices are easy to configure and put into use.
■■ The cables are easy to connect as neither the physical  
order of the devices nor the order of the connection to  
the two Sercos ports is important.
■■ Maintenance is easy because the devices and their position 
within the topology are recognized automatically.
Fast
■■ High speed due to the use of Fast Ethernet  
(100 Mbps full duplex).
■■ Short run times: the summation frame procedure, the 
on-the-fly processing and the direct cross communication 
reduces run times in the network to a minimum.
■■ Configurable cycle time: The communication cycle 
can be set between 31 .25 μs and 65 ms – synchronization 
accuracy << 1 µs.
Efficient
■■ Hot plugging can be done without impacting  
real-time or synchronization characteristics.
■■ Optimized use of bandwidth through a summation  
frame procedure and multiplexing mechanisms.
■■ All Ethernet-based protocols (including TCP/IP communica-
tion) can be transmitted in the same communications cycle 
using the same cable.
Reliable
■■ Redundant data transmission ensures high  
machine and plant availability.
■■ Synchronization which is accurate far below than one  
micro-second ensures deterministic and synchronized  
communication across the entire Sercos network.
■■ Sercos allows fail-safe communication:  
Cable breaks are recognized within 25 μs which  
means that data is lost for a maximum of one cycle.
■■  Robust cables made from copper or fiberoptic.
Economical
■■ Sercos energy: save energy and maximize  
productivity at the same time.
■■ Machine controls can set components to idle mode.
■■ Fast and efficient data transmission allows for shorter  
cycle times and a higher output.
Flexible
■■ Flexible network topologies (ring, line, star/tree structures).
■■ Comprehensive choice of device profiles for all types  
of automation devices.
■■ Innovative communication functions, for example direct  
cross communication and ring redundancy.
Safe
■■ Safety functions up to SIL3 that are in accordance with 
IEC 61508 can be implemented with CIP Safety on Sercos.
■■ Safety-relevant and non-safety-relevant data  
is transferred over the same cable.
■■ Devices can safely communicate outside of network  
boundaries thanks to CIP Safety’s routing capability.
Independent
■■ Sercos technology is independent from manufacturers.  
The user organization Sercos International e.V .  
owns all rights to Sercos technology.
■■ Specifications are maintained and developed  
by multi-vendor working groups.
■■ All specifications are freely available.
■■ Y ou do not have to be a member to use Sercos technology.
PDF_PAGE3
Why Ethernet?
Ethernet makes it possible to have a single network infrastructure for com-
munication across all levels of the automation pyramid. The vertical integra-
tion of anything from sensors to accounting software opens up new pos-
sibilities for operational control. At the same time, modern Ethernet-based 
networks allow for greater flexibility when installing and expanding control 
topologies within the production chain when compared with conventional 
field buses.
04 05
Basic principles / concepts
Sercos III  I  Basic principles / concepts Basic principles / concepts  I  Sercos III
Ethernet technology provides a tangible  
range of benefits: 
■■ recognized and future-proof technology
■■ many times higher data throughput than field buses
■■ no proprietary hardware required
■■ use standard readily available components such as 
double shielded CAT5e copper cables, connectors and 
controllers
■■ flexible and compatible automation systems thanks to 
international standards
Without particular specifications, Ethernet cannot satisfy 
real-time demands and efficiency requirements in auto-
mation engineering. It is for this reason that appropriate 
transmission procedures have to be defined which make 
the Ethernet efficient and compatible with real-time. 
Such diversity in real-time Ethernet solutions available 
on the market does not make it easy to keep perspec-
tive. Even specialists sometimes find it difficult to fully 
■■ universal IT concepts with an integrated transmission 
medium and transmission protocol from the office to 
the field level
■■ can connect to global networks for diagnostics  
and maintenance 
Ethernet technology combines peripheral, driver, safety 
and office communication in one common medium – 
simple, economical and efficient.
evaluate and compare how different real-time Ethernet 
solutions work and what effects they produce. In the 
end, an objective comparison of the solutions can only 
be made when actual application scenarios are available. 
What is important is to understand the basic principles 
of different real-time Ethernet solutions and how they 
work.
 Ethernet
 Sercos III + Ethernet
Service
Sercos III+Ethernet
Machine network
Facility network
Factory network
Internet
Company network
Master
Periphery
Periphery
Drive
I/O
Gateway
Safe
I/O
Safe
drive
Drive
Field bus
Service
Router
Master
Router
Router
 Ethernet
 Sercos III + Ethernet
Intranet
Office
Control  
system
Universal communication 
from the office to the field level 
via Ethernet
?
?
?
?
?
?
?
?
?
SafetyNET p
Switch with time server
PowerDNA
HSCI
Varan
Ethercat
SynUTC
Sercos
Proﬁnet
Mechatrolink III
Drive-Cliq
EtherNet/IP
Vnet/IP
RAPIEnet
RTEX
RTnet
JetSync
FL-net
TTEthernet
Fast T rack Switching
SynqNet
AFDX
Powerlink
Modbus RTPS
DART -EC
TCnet
CC-Link IE
EPA
Compatibility of real-time Ethernet protocols
PDF_PAGE4
06 07
Sercos III  I  Basic principles / concepts Basic principles / concepts  I  Sercos III
All standardized real-time Ethernet solutions are listed in 
IEC 61784 Part 2; each of the protocol specifications for 
real-time Ethernet solutions is contained in IEC 61158 
series of standards. The different kinds of technology 
described there have Ethernet IEEE 802.3 in common as 
their transmission medium and protocol. This technology 
covers the whole plant and process automation sector 
in terms of how it can be applied. When it comes to 
performance and real-time, the greatest demands are 
placed on bus systems which are used in motion control 
applications. 
Determinism
Standard Ethernet is not real-time-enabled because it is 
not deterministic. The lack of determinism is due to the 
fact that while information collisions are indeed flagged 
in traditional CSMA/CD processes, they are, however, 
not avoided. This results in there being considerable 
fluctuations in the time when transmitting information. 
Admittedly, collisions are avoided in switched Ether-
protocols shown in the image are commonly carried out 
in specific hardware, not only the version in the right 
figure. 
Protocol efficiency
In automation engineering, many users that each have a 
low amount of data to transmit are typically connected 
to each other via control and sensor/actuator levels. If 
this process data is transmitted in individual telegrams, 
an unfavorable ratio between the Ethernet overhead and 
the user data volume will be created. In addition, should 
the user data be less than 46 bytes, telegrams are filled 
with zero bytes (called padding) to reach the minimum 
length of 64 bytes. In doing so, valuable bandwidth is 
not used. For this reason, summation frame telegrams, 
where real-time data from several users is consolidated 
into one common telegram, are more efficient.
Lag time/cycle time
A deterministic transmission time (lag) preferably 
with a lower jitter is required (motion control applica-
tions <1 µs) for real-time communication. Processing 
times can be reduced by removing network infrastruc-
ture components (switches, hubs) and by processing 
telegrams through network devices by the network us-
ers during the cycle. Cycle times of well under 1 ms can 
be achieved with more efficient protocols and a faster 
processing time for telegrams at individual network 
nodes. 
Synchronization processes
Automation systems located in different places can be 
synchronized in different ways. 
During a time slot process, synchronization can be 
deduced from the cyclical protocol. The synchronization 
process is based on the transmission of a synchroniza-
tion signal which is cyclically received and analyzed by all 
network devices. In order to be able to ensure the best 
possible synchronization, the signal has to be sent and 
received within a strict time period with the lowest pos-
sible time discrepancy.
Another way of increasing the Ethernet’s temporal 
precision and synchronization is based on the principle 
of separate clocks (IEC 61588) which are synchronized 
with each other via telegrams. Separate clocks allow 
net due to full duplex transmission and point-to-point 
connections. However, additional lag times and non-
deterministic delays during high-peak periods have been 
recorded when using switches.
Real-time Ethernet: 
standard hardware vs. specific hardware
Different processes can be used to make Ethernet 
compatible with real-time. The simplest form of real-time 
protocol is placed above the TCP/IP layer and is based 
on a polling mechanism, or time slot process (image 
below, left). Real-time protocols in which conventional 
protocol stacks (layers 3+4, transfer and network layer) 
are used in real-time protocol (image below, center) are 
more efficient. Further increase in performance is pos-
sible by processing protocols in hardware (image below, 
right). Some real-time Ethernet protocols use their 
own Ethernet frame format at the same time and are 
therefore only compatible with Ethernet on the physical 
layer. On the basis of performance, all real-time Ethernet 
for a precise time base that is not affected by transmis-
sion time and time fluctuations in the communications 
medium. However, since the time base is not able to en-
sure any determinism when transmitting data, the data 
always has to be transmitted long enough in advance 
so that it is available to be processed when it is time for 
synchronization. 
Separate clocks are also used in some real-time Ethernet 
protocols to minimize jitters during cyclical transmission.
Topology
Star topology, which is commonly used for Ethernet 
connections, is avoided wherever possible in automa-
tion engineering since it requires more wiring. Automa-
tion devices are better when directly connected, that 
is, without external infrastructural components instead 
(“Daisy Chaining”). This ensures that hubs or switches 
are integrated into terminal devices. In the case of ex-
tensive machines and plants, it can be advantageous to 
add a branch line or a transmission line to one or more 
devices, or to create a tree or star topology with external 
infrastructural devices or with a device integrated logic 
system that has additional ports.
Standard Ethernet communication
Positioning drives, frequency converters,
I/O periphery
Drives with peripherals signal processing,
high-speed I/O periphery
Central drive concepts,  
highly dynamic metrology applications
Not cyclical
4 – 10 ms
250 µs – 4 ms
31 .25 µs – 125 µs
Not synchronized
Cycle times
Synchronization required
> 4 ms
<< 1 µs
<< 1 µs
Real-time protocol
Real-time
protocol
Application
Application
Application
Ethernet
Modbus/TCP
Powerlink, Proﬁnet RT , EtherNet/IP
Sercos III, Proﬁnet IRT*
Software
Hardware
Cycle time
Protocol efﬁciency
Real-time
protocol
TCP
MAC
PHY
TCP
UDP
UDP
TCP
UDP
IP
IP
IP
Ethernet
MAC
PHY
Ethernet
MAC
PHY
Comparison of real-time requirement categories
Concepts of different real-time Ethernet solutions. 
*Ethernet fieldbuses such as EtherCat, Varan, Mechatrolink, that do not support an Ethernet coexistence, are not considered. 
PDF_PAGE5
With Sercos, real-time data is sent to IEEE 802.3 in 
cyclical telegrams with Ethernet protocol type 0x88CD. 
These make M/S, DCC and SVC, SMP and Safety com-
munication mechanisms available. The replaced data is 
addressable via standardized functional groups, classes 
and profiles.
Sercos differentiates between the following  
kinds of telegrams:
■■ Master Data Telegram (MDT): The master sends 
schedule data to the slave devices.
■■ Acknowledge Telegram (AT): The slaves send their 
status data to the master and to other slave devices.
The connected devices are recognized in the initialization 
phase (phase start-up with communication phases CP0 
– CP4), they are addressed and configured for applica-
tion. Each slave is assigned a device channel in the MDT 
and the AT , which the slave either uses to read from or 
to write into. Depending on the amount of data, several 
MDT and several AT are sent by the master per commu-
nication cycle. The telegram transports data from device 
to device. The relevant schedule data is read at each 
device or the required status data is written in.
Real-time channel
Sercos telegrams that are in the real-time channel are 
processed on the fly via individual network devices dur-
ing the cycle. The telegrams are therefore only delayed 
by a few nanoseconds because the whole protocol 
process is carried out in hardware. In this way, network 
performance is independent of protocol stack, CPU 
performance or software implementation transmission 
times. 
Given that additional network infrastructure compo-
nents (such as hubs or switches) are avoided, trans-
mission times are reduced to a minimum throughout 
the network.
Subsequent communication mechanisms are available  
in the real-time channel:
■■ M/S (Master/Slave): Exchange of functional data  
between masters and slaves in an M/S connection.
■■ DCC (Direct Cross Communication): direct cross 
communication between devices in a DCC connec-
tion, either between control systems or between any 
periphery slaves (e.g. drive, I/O, camera, gateway).
■■ SVC (Service Channel): Exchange of service data that 
is based on demand in a SVC channel as a component 
in real-time communication.
■■ SMP (Sercos Messaging Protocol): Transmitting  
functional data from several devices in one time slot  
by using a multiplex process configured in an M/S  
or DCC connection.
■■ Safety: Exchange of safety-related data in a M/S  
or DCC connection, e.g. disabling or approval signals 
or other set values. 
■■ Sync: Cyclical synchronization trigger for precise, 
network-wide synchronization
Sercos mode of operation
08 09
Configuration of the Sercos communication cycle Communication mechanisms in the real-time and UC Channel.
In order to fully meet the demands of modern industrial automation,  
Sercos provides a high performance protocol. This protocol combines  
the openness of standard Ethernet with the need for real-time accuracy  
in automation engineering. 
Transmission principle
Sercos communication is based on a time slot pro-
cess with a cyclical transmission of telegrams that 
are based on a master slave principle. Cycle times 
are 31 .25 µs, 62.5 µs, 125 µs, 250 µs as well as many 
times over 250 µs up to a maximum value of 65 ms. 
Besides automation concepts with centralized signal 
processing, decentralized automation solutions are 
also created as a result of this bandwidth during cycle 
times. In order to meet hard real-time demands despite 
using Ethernet, a communication cycle is divided into 
two time slots (channels). Sercos-defined real-time 
telegrams (Ethertype 0x88CD) are transmitted through 
a real-time channel that is free of a risk of collision. 
Parallel to this real-time channel, a UC channel can 
be configured, in which all other Ethernet telegrams 
(Ethertype <> 0x88CD) and IP-based protocols such as 
TCP/IP and UDP/IP can be transmitted. These time slots 
are called UC channels.
Cycle times and the division of the bandwidth or bus 
cycle in the real-time and UC channels can be adjusted 
for each application. 
Sercos III  I  Sercos mode of operation Sercos mode of operation  I  Sercos III
MDT
0
MDT
1
MDT
2
MDT
3
AT
0
AT
1
AT
2
AT
3
Ethernet  
telegrams 
 
MDT
0
Real-time channel (RTC)
UCC
Communication cycle
Application
Application level
Communication level
Hardware level
Customer solution
Duplex Fast Ethernet (100 MBit/sec)
Sercos III communication controller
M/S SVC              DCC
Sync
Safety
Encoder proﬁle Safe 
Motion Drive proﬁle Safe 
Drive I/O proﬁle Safe 
I/O S/IPEthernet application
IP
UC Channel
UDP/TCP
“Years of positive experience using 
Sercos control systems and drives 
led us to install Sercos as a system 
bus for our machines and plants. Thanks to 
Sercos’ real-time performance for motion, 
safety, vision and I/O as well as the pos-
sibility of integrating TCP/IP services easily, 
cabling and engineering was made consid-
erably easier. ”
RTC  = Real-Time Channel
UCC  = Unified Communication Channel
MDT  = Master Data Telegram
AT  = Acknowledge Telegram
PDF_PAGE6
10 11
UC Channel
Conventional Ethernet communication is synchronized 
in the so-called Unified Communication Channel (UCC) 
in the Sercos network, e.g. for e-mail, web services or 
other proprietary and standardized Ethernet-based pro-
tocols. This channel sets itself down onto the Ethernet-
layer without tunneling and has a range of benefits:
■■ it is possible to test and configure slaves even without 
initializing real-time network and master hardware
■■ connection to other automation devices which support 
another Ethernet-based protocol which is not Sercos
■■ directly addressing Sercos devices via MAC or  
an IP address
■■ standard Ethernet devices such as laptops are  
connected directly to Sercos devices via any free 
Sercos port
■■ full processing power for the application because the 
master does not have to tunnel or fragment Ethernet 
packets
S/IP protocol
The S/IP protocol allows data to be exchanged in one 
cycle using any Sercos devices without requiring a 
Sercos master or constant Sercos communication. The 
S/IP protocol can also be used in a cyclic real-time opera-
tion. In this instance, the S/IP telegrams are transmitted 
through the UC channel without negatively interfering 
with the network's real-time process.
Topology
Sercos networks consist of a master which coordinates 
and at least one slave which carries out automation 
functions. Generally, the devices are ordered simply and 
neatly in line or ring topologies. For this purpose, each 
Sercos device has two communication connections 
which are connected to the previous and subsequent 
device via an Ethernet cable – either using a twisted 
two-wire line (twisted pair) or an optical fiber. As a result 
of full duplex-enabled Ethernet technology, a logical ring 
appears in a line topology and a logical double ring ap-
pears in a ring topology (see image).
In a line topology, the master is positioned at the 
beginning of a line or between two lines. The telegrams 
containing data run through the slaves and are ‘looped 
back’ by the last device. All devices analyze the data 
running in both directions so that all data is guaranteed 
to reach each device within the cycle independent of the 
order they are placed in (➝■see direct cross communica-
tion). In this way, all devices can be integrated into the 
network, even across long distances, e.g. assembly 
lines, without high installation costs.
By adding an additional cable, the Sercos network 
closes to form a ring; a line is added between the last 
slave and the master, or two lines between the last 
slaves. The master feeds the ring in opposite directions 
over both ports so that the data is also analyzed in two 
directions in the ring. Besides having all the benefits 
of a line topology, ring topology provides additional 
redundant cabling. This means that a break in the ring 
Protocol structure
Sercos telegrams contain a Sercos header and 
a data field embedded in the Ethernet frame 
(see image below).
The Sercos header describes which phase the network 
is in and the position of the MDT and AT telegrams in 
the communication cycle. The MDT and AT data fields 
consist of three areas: 
■■ hot plug field: exchanges data with slaves that 
have been linked to the network while the operation 
is running.
■■ service channel field: total number of communication 
channels that exchange acyclic data between master 
and slaves.
■■ real-time data field: is used to create acyclic, cyclic or 
clock-synchronous connections, and so also real-time 
communication between any devices in the Sercos 
network.
Sercos III  I  Sercos mode of operation Sercos mode of operation  I  Sercos III
Sercos telegrams with a clear data structure for greater operational reliability and easy development.
Device data
Real-time data ﬁeld with standard 
(M/S) and cross communication 
connections (DCC)
 
 
Ethernet package
Sercos III data ﬁeld
Ethernet header
 
Hot plug ﬁeld 
(new devices)
M/S connection
device #1
Sercos III
header
Data field Checksum
Service channel
field 
Real-time data
field
M/S connection
device # N
DCC connection
device #1
DCC connection
device # N
Standard
data
Safety data  
container
… …
 Telegram length: 84 – 1538 Bytes (protocol management: 44 Bytes)
 Telegram time: 6,8 – 123,1 µs
40…1494 Bytes
Sercos-based topologies: Line and ring
Slave
n
Slave
2
Slave
1
With hardware redundancy
Master
M1 M2
Slave
n
Slave
2
Slave
1
Without hardware redundancy
Master
M1 M2
Line structure 
(Individual ring)
Ring structure 
(Double ring)
Extended topologies with branches or stubs.
Slave 9Slave 4 Slave 5
TopoExtensionSwitchboard C
Slave
2
Slave 3
Slave 6
Slave
1
Master
TopoExtensions
Switchboard A
Slave 4 Slave 5
TopoExtensionSwitchboard B
Slave 9Slave 4 Slave 5
Switchboard C
Slave
2
Slave 3
Slave 6
Slave
1
Master
Switchboard A
Slave 4 Slave 5
Switchboard B
Realization of a branch 
via an external infrastructural component
Realization of a branch 
via ports integrated in the device
“The option to communicate di-
rectly via standard Ethernet proto-
cols using all devices even without 
constant Sercos real-time communication. 
makes the set-up operation easier. It also 
allows us access to the device parameters 
while the operation is running. ”  
“Sercos has a clear and robust data 
structure. This increases operational 
reliability and simplifies applica-
tion development. The network status is 
always clear and entirely transparent. I can 
make diagnoses of my plant on each net-
work node with current Ethernet diagnosis 
tools. ” 
PDF_PAGE7
12 13
can be compensated for without losing synchronization 
or causing a breakdown in communication (➝■see ring 
redundancy).
Single devices or machine modules can also be con-
nected to a line or ring via a branch line or a transmission 
line. To achieve this, either an infrastructural component 
with the appropriate branch line ports is integrated into 
the network or this function is directly integrated into 
the Sercos device.
Sercos also supports hierarchical, cascading network 
structures. At the same time, individual network seg-
ments are connected to each other via Sercos allowing 
network structures to be created which are connected 
in real-time and that are completely synchronized. Cycle 
times in single segments can be different, e.g. 250 μs 
for connecting drives and fast I/Os, and 2 ms for con-
necting control systems. Devices across the entire 
network can communicate with each other in real-time. 
Moreover, all devices across the entire network are guar-
anteed to be synchronized.
Hard and soft master
When it comes to masters, either specific hardware (or 
hard master) or an alternative standard Ethernet control-
ler (or soft master) can be installed. In soft masters, 
Sercos-specific hardware functions are relocated to 
the hardware-related and real-time capable part of the 
master driver, so that the master-related activation can 
be realized completely in software. This form of master 
realization is interesting for PC-based controlling plat-
forms for example.
Wiring
Installing a Sercos network is very easy and does not 
require any infrastructural components such as switches 
or hubs. All devices are connected directly to each other 
via patch or crossover cables. Fast Ethernet technology 
means that a 100m wire can be strung between two 
devices. The Ethernet ports on the devices are inter-
changeable and can even be used to connect standard 
Ethernet devices (e.g. notebooks) to a Sercos real-time 
network. This means that every Ethernet and IP protocol 
on Sercos devices can be accessed without interfering 
the Sercos network real-time process (online mode), 
and without needing the Sercos protocol to be activated 
(offline mode).
Field bus integration
Automation devices which (still) do not have a Sercos in-
terface can be integrated into the Sercos network by us-
ing the appropriate gateways. Communication gateways 
are available for the coupling of field buses for example 
(e.g. Profibus, CAN), encoder interfaces (e.g. SSI) or 
sensor/actuator bus (AS-i, IO-Link). Moreover, gateways 
with axis controller periphery are available to integrate 
analogue axes. Gateways are either a feature of Sercos 
devices (e.g. modular I/Os) or are connected to the Ser-
cos network as separate devices.
Sercos III  I  Sercos mode of operation Sercos mode of operation  I  Sercos III
Sercos Slave
Gateway
Field bus master
Field bus  
Slave 1
Field bus  
Slave 2
...
“With Sercos, we can adjust the 
network very easily to our cur-
rent machines and plant structure. 
The fact that switches and hubs are not 
required means that installation costs are 
reduced and cabling is made considerably 
easier. ” 
Sercos and OPC UA
The OPC UA Companion Specification for Sercos de-
scribes the mapping of the Sercos information model to 
OPC UA so that functions and data of Sercos devices 
are made available and accessible via OPC UA. 
Thus, process and device data defined in the Sercos 
specifications are made available in a uniform and cross-
manufacturer manner not just locally via the Sercos 
automation bus, but also via any superordinate network 
infrastructure via OPC UA.
The mapping rules specified by Sercos can be used for 
different implementation approaches. 
The OPC UA server functionality can be implemented in 
a control device (Sercos master). In this case, the control 
acts as a gateway which executes the mapping between 
OPC UA and Sercos (figure, left part).
Thanks to the multi-protocol capability of Sercos, it is 
also possible to integrate the OPC UA server functio-
nality in a Sercos slave device (figure, right part). In 
this case, the OPC UA protocol is directly routed to the 
respective Sercos slave device via the UC channel. The 
OPC UA accesses are executed in parallel to the Sercos 
real-time communication (no tunneling!) or even without 
any Sercos real-time communication.
PeripheriePeripherie
OPC-UA-Server
Sercos Slave #1Sercos Slave #1
OPC UA Server
Sercos Slave #1
Sercos
OPC UA Client
OPC UA Server
Sercos Master
Mapping 
(Gateway)
OPC
OPC UA Client
Control
Sercos Master
OPC
Sercos Slave #1
Sercos + OPC
Control
Periphery Periphery

PDF_PAGE8
14 15
Cross communication – Sercos allows for decentralized intelligence and 
an unlimited capacity to work in real-time because direct communication 
between all devices is possible. Indirect communication between slaves by 
bypassing the master would compromise synchronous movements, e.g. by 
corrupting gantry axes or slowing down reaction times, e.g. when transmit-
ting a trigger signal quickly. Sercos slaves can communicate via cross com-
munication directly and with a minimum of communication dead times – 
this ensures unlimited real-time communication and intelligent automation 
structures. Control systems use the same principle to directly 
communicate with each other.
Sercos III  I  Sercos operating principles Sercos operating principles  I  Sercos III
Sercos operating principles 
DCC – Slave-to-Slave
C2C – Controller-to-Controller
DCC DCC
C2C
DCC DCC
HMI
Master
HMI
Master
HMI
Master
Cross communication between slaves and control systems
How it works:
Given that real-time telegrams are always processed in 
two directions independent of the kind of topology, a 
direct exchange of data between any given slave is en-
abled within the communication cycle (see image). This 
has the advantage that data can always be transmitted 
between the slaves within an individual communication 
cycle while causing minimal delay, even with increased 
cycle times. Moreover, all real-time data is available syn-
chronized – that is, in relation to the general communica-
tion cycle – at every point in the network. As a result, 
data can be processed extremely easily, efficiently and 
flexibly at individual network nodes. Network diagnosis 
and monitoring can also be carried out as a result.
Synchronization
Sercos defines how the actual value is recorded and 
how valid the set value is for processes from different 
products and manufacturers that are to be synchronized. 
Each device receives a data telegram with a particular 
transmission time delay that is appropriate to the device. 
Unlike other Ethernet bus systems, Sercos derives a 
general execution time directly from the bus. The device 
calibrates itself independently with the bus cycle by us-
ing the arrival of the MST while taking into account the 
transmission time in the bus during each bus cycle to 
generate and adjust the internal synchronizing mecha-
nism. As a result, separate clocks are synchronized 
exactly without exchanging time data that overloads the 
bandwidth.
The Sercos master simply has to detect the line or ring 
transmission time and transmit data to each device to-
gether with a sum value that has been appropriately con-
figured. Variations in the sum value can delay the stable 
synchronization signal. Hence delaying the synchroniza-
Master
Direct cross communication forward
Direct cross communication backward
Slave Slave Slave
Tx
Rx
Tx
Rx
Rx
Tx
Rx
Tx
Rx
Tx
Tx
Rx
Tx
Rx
Direct cross communication in a line topology
“The possibility of cross communi-
cation means that decentralized au-
tomation solutions can be installed 
with minimal reaction times and a great 
amount of flexibility. ” 
“Increased accuracy of the transmis-
sion ensures that we can implement 
the most challenging applications. ”
PDF_PAGE9
16 17
Sercos III  I  Sercos operating principles Sercos operating principles  I  Sercos III
Given that communication continues when there is a 
break in the cable, if necessary, new devices or groups 
of devices can be connected to the network while it is in 
operation, and can be integrated into the communication 
(so-called hot plugging or hot swapping). The system 
can merge seamlessly and without interference into the 
configured operation. 
tion time or having to reconfigure the sum value, for 
example, can be prevented when connecting additional 
devices to the Sercos network which is operating in 
cyclical real-time (so-called “hot plugging”). The synchro-
nization process ensures that cyclical and simultaneous 
synchronization of all connected devices is carried out 
independently of topology and of the quantity of devices 
in Sercos networks. The process itself is quick, robust 
and simple to apply. 
Using the described process, Sercos is able to achieve 
synchronization accuracy of less than 20ns and syn-
chronicity of less than 100ns. Given that individual 
Sercos networks can be connected to a network system 
based on a C2C profile (C2C=Controller to Controller), 
fully synchronized network structures can be formed 
without limiting synchronization performance.
Ring redundancy and hot plugging
A network in a ring topology which is safe from inter-
ference is still operative when a cable breaks or when 
slaves are connected or disconnected (hot plugging) and 
no interruption is caused. All devices remain connected 
to the master when a cable breaks due to the additional 
cable in a ring network. The Sercos connections on the 
slaves at the breakage point switch to two separate lines 
with “loop back” without causing any delay. The recon-
figuration time takes a maximum of 25μs so that at the 
very most the data transmitted from one cycle is lost. 
The breakage point can be located exactly and defective 
cables can be simply exchanged while the operation is 
running. 
HMI
Master
Line 1 Line 2
Slaves
Ring
Slaves
Uninterrupted switching (loop back) to line  
topology in the case of hot plugging oder cable break
Additional cable connects two line topologies 
to create a ring topology
Master
Ring redundancy and hot plugging
Oversampling and time stamping
The oversampling process which is integrated into  
Sercos protocol allows more than one nominal/actual 
value per cycle to be transmitted. This increases the deli-
cate nature of the process control in extremely critical 
laser applications, for example, because more data can 
be consolidated and emitted. 
Time stamping also opens up new opportunities for 
communication across the fixed cycle. This function 
transmits event-controlled results such as specific 
measured data and switches outputs independent from 
the cycle. This increases the stability of the process in 
complex processing solutions, like those in the semicon-
ductor industry. 
Performance
Custom Ethernet protocols from office technology rely 
on user data being sent as individual packets to each 
device – embedded in a defined framework made from 
protocol overheads. The quantity of overheads in data 
traffic is disproportionately high in small user data pack-
ets such as simple setpoint targets. A simple example of 
how to use fast Ethernet bandwidth efficiently: if status 
data of 4 bytes per device for 20 devices were sent indi-
vidually, that would take up 1,680 bytes = 20*84 bytes 
altogether (smallest packet size with Ethernet: 64 bytes). 
However, only 80 bytes would be used productively for 
the application - that’s approx. 5% of the bandwidth, 
even during low-peak cycle times.
In Sercos telegrams, however, up to 1,494 bytes of all 
device user data is packed together with an additional 
44 bytes of overheads. With packets that are a maxi-
mum size of 1,538 bytes, the bandwidth available for 
productive data increases to up to 97%.
100 %
90 %
80 %
70 %
60 %
50 %
40 %
30 %
20 %
10 %
0 %
Polling of individual 
IP packages
Sercos III  
telegram
  User data   Protocol management
Efficient use of bandwidth with Sercos 
Example configurations 
Cycle time 
in µs
Cyclic data  
per device  
in bytes
Maximum number  
of devices 
(without UCC)
Maximum number  
of devices (with UCC, 
250 Bytes = 20 µs)
 
Maximum number 
of devices (with UCC, 
1,500 Bytes = 125 µs)
 
 
31.25 8 7 2 –
62.5 12 14 8 –
125 16 26 21 –
250 12 61 57 30
250 32 33 31 17
500 12 122 120 94
1,000 50 97 95 85
1,000 32 137 134 120
1,000 12 251 245 220
“ A Sercos hardware failure or 
break in a cable does not result in 
a breakdown in communication. 
Instead, we are able to replace defective 
devices or cables while the system is in 
operation, which significantly increases 
machine availability. ”
“Sercos’ efficient real-time proto-
cols result in universal, consistent 
machine connection with fast reac-
tion times and great accuracy. ” 
PDF_PAGE10
18 19
Device models and profiles
The device model from Sercos not only supports pure automation devices 
but also hybrid devices which combine various applications in one device.  
It is for this reason that no device profiles but, instead, function-specific 
profiles are defined by Sercos. 
Sercos III  I  Function-specific profiles Function-specific profiles  I  Sercos III
Function-specific profiles 
The following profiles have already been specified:
■■ Generic device profile: functions for diagnosis and 
management functions in all types of devices
■■ Drive profile: consistent and continuous functions for 
controlling of hydraulic, pneumatic and electric drives
■■ I/O profile: consistent and continuous functions for 
controlling of modular and non-modular I/O stations
■■ Encoder profile: consistent and continuous functions 
for controlling of encoders
■■ Energy profile: Consistent and continuous functions 
for reduction of energy consumption due to shut-
down, partial machine operation and turndown.
The parameters of the different profiles are either con-
figured into the real-time telegrams for cyclical transmis-
sion or these parameters are accessed via the service 
channel or the S/IP protocol.
Device description
Sercos offers the possibility to represent all types of 
automation devices on the field and controlling level 
in the different phases of their life cycle in a functional 
and logical manner. The device description language 
SDDML was developed in order to describe devices 
and the provided functions for the offline configuration 
and for their easy display in a generic engineering tool. 
A configuration interface (SCI) determines the network 
configuration and defines which slaves must be present 
and which are optional. The slave devices are identified 
via criteria which are described in the file. Furthermore, 
the configuration file describes the parametrization of 
the individual devices by means of a generic procedure. 
In addition, the parametrization of the master can be 
carried out.
FDT/DTM for Sercos 
Sercos makes use of the open and manufacturer-inde-
pendent FDT technology to standardize the communica-
tion between field devices and software engineering 
tools. It is for this purpose that device manufacturers 
may deliver a Sercos device with a DTM (Device Type 
Manager) adjusted to the device. In this case, the DTM 
is directly integrated into the corresponding framework 
application. However, an SDDML -conforming device de-
scription file can also be converted into a corresponding 
Sercos device DTM by means of a generic conversion 
(based on general rules). In this connection, the device 
description may already be available as file or be directly 
generated from the parameter set directly stored in the 
device or accessible (online) via the bus system.
Simplified processes – from engineering  
to maintenance
The configuration, startup, diagnostics and maintenance 
of Sercos networks is quite simple. The user can focus 
on the application – Sercos manages the network and 
supports the user in startup and diagnostics. All devices 
are connected with industry-compatible standard CAT5e 
cables or fibre optic cables. After an initialization phase, 
the network is synchronized and operational. Newly 
installed devices (hot plugging) are integrated into  
the communication and real-time data exchange during 
running operation.
Binary
S
-
0
-
0012
 
Warning
S
-
0
-
0050
S
-
0
-
0101
…
Parameter for device
     
Selected parameters for concrete application
Cyclic real-time data in one connection
Decimal signed
 
Decimal unsigned
2 Byte
4 Byte
4 Byte
S
-
0
-
0051
 
Position actual value
S
-
0
-
0100
 
P
-
gain in speed control
Sercos real-time communication with stan-
dardized parameters, using the example of 
the drive profile 
“We have made very good experi-
ences with the excellent degree of 
standardization of the drive profile 
whereby it was possible for us to integrate 
devices of various manufacturers to our 
control and to commission the machine in 
a remarkably short time. ”
PDF_PAGE11
Sercos III  I  Function-specific profiles Function-specific profiles  I  Sercos III
Your advantages
■■ Commissioning without presets thanks to automatic 
device identification and address assignment. If re-
quired, an individual address pre-selection or address 
presetting via selector is possible.
■■ Automatic detection and compensation of duplicate 
device addresses.
■■ Simple and robust cabling on commissioning and 
maintenance since both Sercos III ports of the device 
operate identically and do not have to be distinguished 
when cabling.
■■ Simple stocking of spare parts, patch as well as cross-
over cables can be used.
■■ Commissioning is possible without master hardware 
due to simple integration of service PCs into the  
Sercos III network.
■■ Full diagnostic possibilities such as automatic identifi-
cation of the topology and connection sequence of the 
users, localization and redundancy concerning cable 
breaks.
■■ Repairs and modifications of the facility without any 
impairment of the rest of the network by hot plugging.
■■ Possibility of vertical integration thanks to the option 
to include Ethernet based protocols.
Simple cabling of devices  
in a Sercos network 
 
 
  
No master  
required for  
conﬁguration/ 
diagnostics  
 
Standard 
IP network
Sercos III real-time network
Patch or  
crossover cable
Ports combinable  
in any arrangement 
20 21
PDF_PAGE12
Safety-relevant data is transmitted as a safety data 
container. The data container is stored in the relevant 
real-time device channel just like standard data – in an 
MDT just as in an AT . A multiplex protocol, SMP (Sercos 
Messaging Protocol), is used to transmit safety data that 
has been scanned differently without losing bandwidth 
despite there being shorter bus cycles. CIP Safety is 
a network protocol for functional safety. It has been 
certified by TÜV Rheinland for installation in applications 
with a safety integrity level of 3 (SIL3) and satisfies the 
IEC standard 61508 for functional safety (“functional 
safety of safety-related electric/electronic/programmable 
electronic systems”).
Safety
22 23
Sercos safety data container for transmitting all safety-related data
How to communicate quickly and 
safely using CIP Safety on Sercos
CIP Safety on SERCOS is a protocol for transmitting safety-relevant data 
via Sercos – defined in cooperation with the ODVA and certified according 
to IEC 61508 up to SIL3. There is no need for additional cabling for a safety 
bus because signals are simply transmitted alongside other real-time data 
on the Sercos network. The integration of drive, periphery and safety bus 
as well as standard Ethernet in one single network simplifies handling and 
reduces hardware and installation costs. Integrated safety control systems 
and homogeneous safety solutions can be carried out with ease. 
Sercos III  I  Safety Safety  I  Sercos III
Safety data container
Device data with 
safety data container
 
Real-time data ﬁeld with 
standard (M/S) and cross 
communication connections (DCC)
 
 
Ethernet package
Sercos III data ﬁeld
Ethernet 
header  
Hot plug ﬁeld 
(new devices)
 
M/S connection 
device #1 
Standard 
data
Safety header
Sercos III 
header
 Data field Checksum
Service 
channel field 
Real-time 
data field
 
M/S connection 
device #N 
DCC connection 
device #N
!""#$%&&'$()%&#*'+)$'#,-#
DCC connection 
device #1 
Standard 
data
Safety data 
container
Standard 
data
Safety data 
container
Standard 
data
Data...data Checksum Safety header Redundant 
data...data
Checksum
… …
CIP
Safety proﬁles
Adaption to CIP safety 
 
Sercos Messaging Protocol (SMP)
Sercos III transport system
With CIP Safety on Sercos, data is safely transmitted 
to the same medium using the same connection as the 
rest of the communication. The functionality of trans-
port protocol and non-medium dependent CIP safety 
protocols lies in the end devices, which allows standard 
and safety devices to be operated simultaneously on the 
same network. Safe communication is possible across 
and between all network levels. The master, therefore, 
does not necessarily have to be a safety controller, 
but can also route data without having to interpret it. 
Safe Sercos slave devices can be connected to each 
other without safety controllers and can communicate 
securely via direct cross communication in the shortest 
reaction times. This gives the user real flexibility when 
setting up safety network architecture, when install-
ing safety programmable controllers or when directly 
transmitting safety data between sensors and actuators. 
Moreover, by using a standard CIP network, commu-
nication from safety devices in a subnet to/from safety 
devices in another subnet is made seamlessly.
“ A single safety protocol for Sercos, 
EtherNet/IP and DeviceNet enables 
our machines and systems to be 
universally connected and allows safety-
related process data to be transmitted. ”
PDF_PAGE13
24 25
Sercos Real-Time Channel
Ethertype= 0x88CD
Uniﬁed Communication Channel
Ethertype ≠ 0x88CD
EtherNet/IP, TCP/IP, …Sercos III
Bus cycle (i) Bus cycle (i+1)
Sercos EtherNet/IP TCP/IP
Sercos III
… … … … … … …
When the application requires a Sercos ring for redun-
dant data transmission of real-time data and therefore 
no free Sercos port is available, an IP switch must be 
integrated into the ring or into a device. Its function is to 
connect and disconnect the EtherNet/IP packets into the 
Sercos ring. The EtherNet/IP devices can be arranged in 
different topology types: star and line topologies as well 
as DLR (Device Level Ring).
The highly efficient Sercos telegrams ensure that only a 
part of the existing bandwidth is used for the real-data 
exchange. Sercos needs for an application with 64 drives 
only 400 microseconds and a 2 milliseconds cycle for ex-
ample. This means that 1 .6 milliseconds are available for 
the transmission of TCP/IP and EtherNet/IP telegrams. 
Since the UC Channel sits directly on the Ethernet layer, 
TCP/IP and EtherNet/IP as well as other Ethernet users 
can be connected to the network without any additional 
hardware. Tunneling of the protocols is not required. 
Even before a Sercos III communication is initiated by 
the master, the network users can exchange data via 
TCP/IP , EtherNet/IP and the S/IP protocol specified by 
Sercos. 
The common infrastructure complements the Sercos so-
lution portfolio as, alongside the extensive Sercos prod-
uct range, EtherNet/IP devices of various manufacturers 
can be implemented additionally. With this concept, 
the number of communication interfaces and therefore 
the hardware complexity will be significantly reduced 
in machines and facilities. The continuous networking 
increases the operating efficiency in engineering and in 
the operation of the facilities.
Common network infrastructure
Combination of Sercos and EtherNet/IP devices using the example of a line topology
Coexistence of Ethernet protocols on the basis of the time multiplex procedure from Sercos III
The diversification in the automation technology has made machine in-
tegration a complex and cost-intensive task. In fact, manufacturers are 
increasingly using industrial Ethernet solutions. But even if the technical 
advantages are evident, functioning systems on the basis of traditional field 
buses are not automatically rendered obsolete. In addition, there is a num-
ber of concurring communication protocols, which are based on Ethernet, 
but which cannot co-exist within a network infrastructure without influenc-
ing performance and real-time characteristics in a negative manner. There 
is one solution for Sercos that enables the operation of EtherNet/IP , TCP/IP 
and Sercos devices via a single Ethernet cable. Neither additional hardware 
nor tunneling of the protocols is required for that purpose.
Sercos III  I  Common network infrastructure Common network infrastructure  I  Sercos III
M
Servo drives
Standard I/O
Motion Logic Control / PLC
Dual Stack Master
M M
Frequency converter
Bar code scanner
Standard I/O
Sercos III devices EtherNet/IP devices
For implementing a mixed Sercos and EtherNet/IP net- 
work infrastructure, a Sercos master and an EtherNet/IP 
scanner are required. These functionalities can also be 
combined in one single device, a so-called dual stack 
master. If no redundancy is required, the devices are 
connected in a line topology. When the last Sercos de-
vice identifies a Sercos-unknown device on its second 
Ethernet port, it only transmits non-Sercos telegrams 
which are destined for other devices. In the reverse di-
rection, the device transmits incoming telegrams via the 
first Ethernet port to the dual stack master and uses the 
UC Channel to this end. Standard Ethernet telegrams 
which come in during the time reserved for the real-time 
channel, will be retained and subsequently transmitted.
“The utilization of a uniform net-
work infrastructure for Sercos and 
EtherNet/IP devices is an innova-
tive approach to reducing the number of 
communication interfaces and therefore 
the hardware complexity in machines and 
facilities significantly. The continuous net-
working increases the operating efficiency 
in engineering and in the operation of the 
facilities. ”
PDF_PAGE14
26 27
Sercos III  I  Sercos members Sercos members  I  Sercos III
Member companies of Sercos International
ZZ ROBOT

PDF_PAGE15
© Sercos International e. V . 11/2016 · Subject to revisions
Sercos International e. V . 
Kueblerstr. 1 
73079 Suessen, Germany 
  : +49 7162 946865 
  : +49 7162 946866 
E-mail: info@sercos.de  
www.sercos.de
Sercos North America 
405 Loblolly Bay Drive 
Santa Rosa Beach, FL 32459, U.S.A. 
Toll free:  
1-800-5-Sercos (1-800-573-7267) 
  : +1 850 6601293 
  : +1 850 6601293 
E-mail: info@sercos.com 
www.sercos.com 
Sercos Asia
China: 
Building No.1 #314,  
No.1 Jiao Chang Kou Street, 
De Sheng Men Wai,  
Xicheng District, 
Beijing, 100120, China 
  : +86 10 82285783 
  : +86 10 62017873 
E-mail: sercos@cameta.org.cn 
www.sercos.org 
Japan: 
Shin-Yokohama 3-17-15 (8F)
Kohoku-ku
Yokohama, 222-0033, Japan 
  : +81 45 620 2013 
E-mail: info-japan@sercos.com 
www.sercos.jp 