STN2120   
8 of 25 http://www.obdsol.com STN2120DSA 
LED_STATUS 
Status LED output. This pin will output constant 
high when the device is running and will output low 
with 5 ms high pulses every 3 seconds when in sleep 
mode. This pin has an  8x current rating (see Table 6 
“Output Pin DC Specifications”). Leave unconnected if 
unused. 
 
MS_CAN_RX 
Medium-speed CAN receive input. Compatible with 
3.3V and 5V logic. Pull up to VDD if unused.  
 
MS_CAN_TX 
Medium-speed CAN transmit output. Open drain – 
requires a pull -up to V DD or 5V. Pull -up resistor value 
depends on CAN baud rates used and the trace 
length (higher resistor values can be used with lower  
baud rates and shorter traces); recommended value is 
1 kΩ (1.5  kΩ, if pulled up to 5V). This pin has an  8x 
current rating (see Table 6 “Output Pin DC Speci -
fications”). Pu ll up to V DD via 1 00 kΩ resistor  if 
unused. 
 
OSC1, OSC2 
16.000 MHz oscillator crystal connection. 
 
PAD 
The metal plane on the bottom of the device (QFN 
package only). It is not connected to any pins 
internally. Connect to VSS externally. 
 
PWM_RX 
SAE J1850 PWM receive input. When the 
SAE J1850 bus is in the recessive state (Bus+ is low, 
Bus- is high), this pin should be at a logic low level. 
When the SAE  J1850 bus is in the dominant (Bus+ is 
high) state, this pin should be at a logic high level. 
Connect to VSS if unused. 
 
PWR_CTRL 
External power control output. Used to switch 
external circuitry into low -power (sleep) state. Polarity 
can be configured in firmware; default configuration is 
active high (logic low = sleep mode). Open drain –  
requires a pull -up to VDD or 5V; be mindful of the fact 
that the pull -up will draw current in low -power state. 
This pin has a 4x current rating (see Table 6 “Output 
Pin DC Speci fications”). Pull down to V SS via 100 kΩ 
resistor if unused. 
 
RESET¯¯¯¯¯ 
Device reset input. A logic low pulse (min 2 μs) on 
this pin will reset the device. Apply a continuous logic 
low to hold the device in reset. If your circuit does not 
use this functionality, pull up this pin to VDD. 
 
SLEEP¯¯¯¯¯ 
External sleep control input. When enabled in 
firmware, puts the device into lo w-power sleep mode. 
Polarity of this pin can be configured in firmware; 
default configuration is active low. Pull up to V DD if 
unused. 
 
SW_CAN_LOAD 
Single-wire CAN high -speed tool load  enable 
output. The pin outputs logic high when high -speed 
tool load is enabled via the STCSWM command. This 
pin has an 8x current rating (see Table 6 “Output Pin 
DC Specifications”). Leave unconnected if unused. 
 
SW_CAN_MODE0, SW_CAN_MODE1 
Single-wire CAN transceiver operating mode 
selection outputs. Connect to MODE0, MODE1 pins of 
a single -wire CAN transceiver IC. Open drain – 
require pull-ups to V DD or 5V; recommended value is 
10 kΩ. These pins have 8x current ratings (see Table 
6 “Output Pin DC Speci fications”). Both pins are 
driven low in sleep mode – it is recommended to pull 
up to a switched power to reduce power consumption 
during sleep. Leave unconnected if unused. 
 
SW_CAN_RX 
Single-wire CAN receive input. Compatible with 
3.3V and 5V logic. Pull up to VDD if unused. 
 
SW_CAN_TX 
Single-wire CAN transmit output. Open drain –  
requires a pull -up to V DD or 5V. Pull -up resistor value 
depends on CAN baud rates used and the trace 
length (higher resistor values can be used with lower 
baud rates and shorter traces); recommended value is 
1 kΩ (1.5  kΩ, if pulled up to 5V). This pin has a 4x 
current rating (see Table 6 “Output Pin DC Speci -
fications”). Pull  up to V DD via 1 00 kΩ resistor  if 
unused. 
 
UART_RX 
UART receive input. Com patible with 3.3V and 5V 
logic. 
 