STN2120   
10 of 25 http://www.obdsol.com STN2120DSA 
5.0 Guidelines for Getting Started with STN2120 
 
5.1 Basic Connection 
Requirements 
Getting started with the STN2120 IC requires 
attention to a minimal set of device pin connections 
before proceeding with development. The following is 
a list of pin names, which must always be connected: 
• All VDD and VSS pins (see Section 5.2 
“Decoupling Capacitors”) 
• AVDD and AVSS pins (see Section 5.2 
“Decoupling Capacitors” and Section 5.3 “AVDD 
and AVSS Pins”) 
• VCAP (see Section 5.4 “Internal Voltage 
Regulator Filter Capacitor”) 
• RESET¯¯¯¯¯¯ pin (see Section 5.5 “Device Reset Pin”) 
• OSC1 and OSC2 pins (see Section 5.6 
“Oscillator Pins”) 
• RST_NVM¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ pin (see Section 5.7 “NVM Reset 
Input”) 
• Open Drain Output Pull-ups (see Section 5.8 
“Open Drain Outputs”) 
 
5.2 Decoupling Capacitors 
You must use decoupling capacitors on every pair 
of power supply pins, such as V DD, VSS and AVDD, 
AVSS. Consider the following criteria when using 
decoupling capacitors: 
• Value and type of capacitor: Recommendation 
of 1 μF, 10-20V. This capacitor should be a low -
ESR and have resonance frequency in the range 
of 20 MHz and higher. It is recommended that 
ceramic capacitors be used. 
• Placement on the printed circuit board: The 
decoupling capacitors should be placed as close 
to the pins as possible. It is recommended to 
place the capacitors on the same side of the 
board as the device. If space is constricted, the 
capacitor can be placed on another layer on the 
PCB using a via; however, ensure that the trace 
length from the pin to the capacitor is within ¼”  
(6 mm) in length. 
• Handling high frequency noise: If the board is 
experiencing high frequency noise, upward of 
tens of MHz, add a second ceramic -type 
capacitor in parallel to the above described 
decoupling capacitor. The value of the second 
capacitor can be in the range of 0.01 µF to 
0.001 µF. Place this second capacitor next to the 
primary decoupling capacitor. 
• Maximizing performance:  On the board layout 
from the power supply circuit, run the power and 
return traces to the decoupling capacitors first, 
and then to the device pins. This ensures that the 
decoupling capacitors are first in the power chain. 
Equally important is to keep the trace length 
between the capacitor and the power pins to a 
minimum thereby reducing PCB track inductance. 
 
5.2.1 Tank Capacitors 
On boards with power traces running longer than 
six inches in length, use a tank capacitor for integ-
rated circuits, including the STN2120, to supply a 
local power source. The value of the tank capacitor 
should be determined based on the trace resistance 
that connects the power supply source to the device, 
and the maximum current drawn by the device in the 
application. In other words, select the tank capacitor 
so that it meets the acceptable voltage sag at the 
device. Typical values range from 4.7 µF to 47 µF. 
 
5.3 AVDD and AVSS Pins 
As a minimum, AV DD must be connected directly 
to VDD and AVSS must be connected directly to VSS. 
It is recommended that AV DD be connected to to 
VDD via a 10 Ω resistor or a small (10 μH – 47 μH) 
inductor. 
AVSS should be connected to the electrically 
cleanest ground net (plane). For best results, analog 
circuitry should have a separate ground plane with a 
point connection to VSS ground plane as close as 
possible to the AVSS pin. 
 
5.4 Internal Voltage Regulator 
Filter Capacitor 
A low -ESR (<  1 Ω) capacitor is required on the  
VCAP pin, which is used to stabilize the internal 
voltage regulator output voltage. The VCAP pin must 
not be connected to VDD, and must have a capacitor 
between 4.7 µF and 10 µF, 16V connected to ground. 
The type can be ceramic or tantalum. Refer to 
Section 7.2 “Electrical Characteristics ” for additional 
information. The placement of t his capacitor should 
be close to the VCAP pin. It is recommended that the 
trace length not exceed ¼” (6 mm). 
 
5.5 Device Reset Pin 
RESET¯¯¯¯¯ pin must be logic high for STN 2120 to 
run. If this pin is not controlled by the host controller, 
it must be connected to VDD. 
It is recommended to pull up RESET¯¯¯¯¯ pin to VDD 
via a 10 kΩ resistor. 