MODBUS Application Protocol Specification V1.1b3 Modbus 
April 26, 20 12 http://www.modbus.org  4/50 
The MODBUS application data unit is built by the client that initiates a MODBUS transaction. 
The function indicates to the server what kind of action to perform. The MODBUS application 
protocol establishes the format of a request initiated by a client.  
The function code field of a MODBUS data unit is coded in one byte. Valid codes are in the 
range of 1 ... 255 decimal (the range 128 – 255 is reserved and used for exception 
responses). When a message is sent from a Client to a Server device the function code field 
tells the server what kind of action to perform.  Function code "0" is not valid.  
Sub-function codes are added to some function codes  to define multiple actions.  
The data field of messages sent from a client to server devices contains additional information 
that the server uses to take the action defined by the function code. This can include items 
like discrete and register addresses, the quantity of items to be handled, and the count of 
actual data bytes in the field. 
The data field may be nonexistent (of zero length) in certain kinds of requests, in this case the 
server does not require any additional information. The function code alone specifies the 
action. 
If no error occurs related to the MODBUS function requested in a properly received MODBUS 
ADU the data field of a response from a server to a client contains the data requested. If an 
error related to the MODBUS function requested occurs, the field contains an exception code 
that the server application can use to determine the next action to be taken. 
For example a client can read the ON / OFF states of a group of discrete outputs or inputs or 
it can read/write the data contents of a group of registers. 
When the server responds to the client, it uses the function code field to indicate either a 
normal (error-free) response or that some kind of error occurred (called an exception 
response). For a normal response, the server simply echoes to the request the original 
function code. 
Function code Data Request 
Client Server 
Initiate request 
Perform the action 
Initiate the response 
Receive the response 
Function code Data Response 
Figure 4: MODBUS transaction (error free) 
For an exception response, the server returns a code that is equivalent to the original function 
code from the request PDU with its most significant bit set to logic 1.  
Figure 5: MODBUS transaction (exception response) 
Client Server
Initiate request
Error detected in the action
Initiate an error
Exception Function code Receive the response Exception code
Function code Data Request