MODBUS Application Protocol Specification V1.1b3 Modbus 
April 26, 20 12 http://www.modbus.org  6/50 
4.3 MODBUS Data model 
MODBUS bases its data model on a series of tables that have distinguishing characteristics. 
The four primary tables are: 
Primary tables  Object type  Type of 
access
Comments  
 Discretes Input  Single bit  Read -Only  This type of data can be provided by an I/O system.  
Coils  Single bit  Read -Write  This type of data can be alterable by an application 
program.  
Input Registers  16-bit word Read -Only  This type of data can be provided by an I/O system  
Holding Registers  16-bit word Read -Write  This type of data can be alterable by an application 
program.  
The distinctions between inputs and outputs, and between bit-addressable and word-
addressable data items, do not imply any application behavior. It is perfectly acceptable, and 
very common, to regard all four tables as overlaying one another, if this is the most natural 
interpretation on the target machine in question. 
For each of the primary tables, the protocol allows individual selection of 65536 data  items, 
and the operations of read or write of those items are designed to span multiple consecutive 
data items up to a data size limit which is dependent on the transaction function code.  
It’s obvious that all the data handled via MODBUS (bits, registers)  must be located in device 
application memory. But physical address in memory should not be confused with data 
reference. The only requirement is to link data reference with physical address.  
MODBUS logical reference numbers, which are used in MODBUS functions, are unsigned 
integer indices starting at zero. 
 Implementation examples of MODBUS model
The examples below show two ways of organizing the data in device. There are different
organizations possible, but not all are described in this document. Each de vice can have its
own organization of the data according to its application
Example 1 : Device having 4 separate blocks 
The example below shows data organization in a device having digital and analog, inputs and 
outputs. Each block is separate because data from different blocks have no correlation. Each 
block is thus accessible with different MODBUS functions. 
Input Discrete
MODBUS access
Device application memory
MODBUS SERVER DEVICE
MODBUS RequestCoils
Input Registers
Holding
Registers
Figure 6 MODBUS Data Model with separate block 