MODBUS Application Protocol Specification V1.1b3  Modbus  
April 26 , 20 12 http://w ww.modbus.org  21/50 
In this example, the output data is 6D hex (0110 1101 binary). Left to right, the outputs are 
OFF–ON–ON–OFF–ON–ON–OFF–ON. The status is shown from the highest to the lowest 
addressed output.  
MB Server Sends mb_exception_rsp EXIT
ExceptionCode = 04
MB Server receives mb_req_pdu
ExceptionCode = 01
NO
YES
ENTRY
ReadExceptionStatus == OK
MB Server Sends mb_rsp
NO
YES
Function code
supported
Request Processing
 
 
Figure 17: Read Exception Status state diagram  
 
 
 
 
6.8 08 (0x08) Diagnostics (Serial Line only)  
MODBUS function code 08 provides a series of tests for checking the communication system 
between a client device and a server, or for checking various internal error conditions within a 
server.  
The function uses a two –byte sub -function code field in the q uery to define the type of test to 
be performed. The server echoes both the function code and sub -function code in a normal 
response. Some of the diagnostics cause data to be returned from the remote device in the 
data field of a normal response.  
In genera l, issuing a diagnostic function to a remote device does not affect the running of the 
user program in the remote device. User logic, like discrete and registers, is not accessed by 
the diagnostics. Certain functions can optionally reset error counters in the remote device.  
A server device can, however, be forced into ‘Listen Only Mode’ in which it will monitor the 
messages on the communications system but not respond to them. This can affect the 
outcome of your application program if it depends upon any fu rther exchange of data with the 
remote device. Generally, the mode is forced to remove a malfunctioning remote device from 
the communications system.  
 
The following diagnostic functions are dedicated to serial line devices.  
 
The normal response to the Retu rn Query Data request is to loopback the same data. The 
function code and sub -function codes are also echoed.  
Request  
Function code  1 Byte  0x08  
Sub-function  2 Bytes   
Data  N x 2 Bytes   