MODBUS Application Protocol Specification V1.1b3  Modbus  
April 26 , 20 12 http://w ww.modbus.org  23/50 
 
03 Change ASCII Input Delimiter  
The character ‘CHAR’ passed in the request data field becomes the end of message delimiter 
for future messages (replacing the default LF character). This function is useful in cases of a 
Line Feed is not required at the end of ASCII messages.  
Sub-function  Data Field (Request)  Data Field (Response)  
00 03  CHAR 00  Echo Request Data  
 
04 Force Listen Only Mode  
Forces the addressed remote device to its Listen Only Mode for M ODBUS communications. 
This isolates it from the other devices on the network, allowing them to continue 
communicating without interruption from the addressed remote device. No response is 
returned.  
When the remote device enters its Listen Only Mode, all ac tive communication controls are 
turned off. The Ready watchdog timer is allowed to expire, locking the controls off.  While the 
device is in this mode, any MODBUS messages addressed to it or broadcast are monitored, 
but no actions will be taken and no resp onses will be sent.  
The only function that will be processed after the mode is entered will be the Restart 
Communications Option function (function code 8, sub -function 1).  
Sub-function  Data Field (Request)  Data Field (Response)  
00 04  00 00  No Response Returned  
 
10 (0A Hex) Clear Counters and Diagnostic Register  
The goal is to clear all counters and the diagnostic register. Counters are also cleared upon 
power –up. 
Sub-function  Data Field (Request)  Data Field (Response)  
00 0A  00 00  Echo Request Data  
 
11 ( 0B Hex) Return Bus Message Count  
The response data field returns the quantity of messages that the remote device has detected 
on the communications system since its last restart, clear counters operation, or power –up. 
Sub-function  Data Field (Request)  Data  Field (Response)  
00 0B  00 00  Total Message Count  
 
12 (0C Hex) Return Bus Communication Error Count  
The response data field returns the quantity of CRC errors encountered by the remote device 
since its last restart, clear counters operation, or power –up.  
Sub-function  Data Field (Request)  Data Field (Response)  
00 0C  00 00  CRC Error Count  
 
13 (0D Hex) Return Bus Exception Error Count  
The response data field returns the quantity of MODBUS exception responses returned by the 
remote device since its last restart , clear counters operation, or power –up. 
Exception responses are described and listed in section 7 . 
Sub-function  Data Field (Request)  Data Field (Response)  
00 0D  00 00 Exception Error Count  
14 (0E Hex) Return Server  Message Count  
The response data field returns the quantity of messages addressed to the remote device, or 
broadcast, that the remote device has processed since its last restart, clear counters 
operation, or power –up. 
Sub-function  Data Field (Request)  Data Field (Response)  
00 0E  00 00  Server  Message Count  
 
15 (0F Hex) Return Server  No Response Count  