MODBUS Application Protocol Specification V1.1b3  Modbus  
April 26 , 20 12 http://w ww.modbus.org  44/50 
Exception code  1 Byte  01 or  02 or 03 or  04 
 
 
Request parameters description :  
A MODBUS Encapsulated Interface assigned number 14 identifies the Read identification 
request.  
The parameter " Read Device ID code " allows to define four access types  :  
01: request  to get the basic device identification (stream access)  
02: request to get the regular device identification (str eam access)  
03: request to get the  extended device identification (stream access)  
04: request to get one specific identification object (individual access)  
An exception code 03 is sent back in the response if the Read device ID code is illegal.  
In case of a response that does not fit into a single response, several  transactions 
(request/response ) must be done. The Object Id byte gives the identification of the first 
object to obtain. For the first transaction, the client must set the Object Id to 0 to obtain 
the beginning of the device identification data. For the following transactions, the client 
must set the Object Id to the value returned by the server in its previous response.  
Remark :  An object is indivisible, therefore any object must ha ve a size consistent with 
the size of  transaction response.  
 
If the Object Id does not match any known object, the server responds as if object 0 were 
pointed out (restart at the beginning).  
 In case of an individual access: ReadDevId code 04 , the Object  Id in the request gives 
the identification of the object to obtain, and if the Object Id doesn't match to any known 
object, the server returns an exception response with exception code = 02 (Illegal data 
address).  
If the server device is asked for a desc ription level ( readDevice Code )higher that its 
conformity level , It must respond in accordance with its actual conformity level.  
 
Response parameter description :  
Function code :  Function code 43 (decimal) 0x2B (hex)  
MEI Type  14 (0x0E) MEI Type assign ed number for Device Identification 
Interface  
ReadDevId code :  Same as request ReadDevId code : 01, 02, 03 or 04  
Conformity Level  Identification conformity level of the device and type of supported 
access  
0x01: basic identification (stream access only)  
0x02: regular identification (stream access only)  
0x03: extended identification (stream access only)  
0x81: basic identification (stream access and individual access)  
0x82: regular identification (stream access and individual access)  
0x83: extended identificat ion(stream access and individual 
access)  
More Follows  In case of ReadDevId codes 01, 02 or 03 (stream access),  
If the identification data doesn't fit into a single response, several 
request/response transactions may be required.  
0x00 : no more Object are a vailable  
0xFF : other identification Object are available and further 
MODBUS transactions are required  
In case of ReadDevId code 04 (individual access),  
this field must be set to 00.  
Next Object Id  If "MoreFollows = FF", identification of the next Object to be 
asked for.  
If "MoreFollows = 00", must be set to 00 (useless)  
Number Of Objects  Number of identification Object returned in the response  
(for an individual access, Number Of Objects = 1)  
Object0.Id  Identification of the first Object returned in the P DU (stream 
access) or the requested Object (individual access)  