MODBUS Application Protocol Specification V1.1b3  Modbus  
April 26 , 20 12 http://w ww.modbus.org  47/50 
7 MODBUS Exception Responses  
When a client  device sends a request to a server  device it expects a normal response. One 
of four possible events can occur from the client ’s query:  
 If the server  device receives the request without a communication error, and can 
handle the query normally, it returns a normal response.  
 If the server  does not receive the request due to a communication error, no response 
is returned. The client  program will eventually  process a timeout condition for the 
request.  
 If the server  receives the r equest, but detects a communication error (parity, LRC, 
CRC, ...), no response is returned. The client  program will eventually process a 
timeout condition for the request.  
 If the server  receives the request without a communication error, but cannot handl e it 
(for example, if the request is to read a non –existent output or register), the server  
will return an exception response informing the client  of the nature of the error.  
 
The exception response message has two fields that differentiate it from a nor mal response:  
Function Code Field: In a normal response, the server  echoes the function code of the 
original request in the function code field of the response. All function codes have a most –
significant bit (MSB) of 0 (their values are all below 80 hexad ecimal). In an exception 
response, the server  sets the MSB of the function code to 1. This makes the function code 
value in an exception response exactly 80 hexadecimal higher than the value would be for a 
normal response.  
With the function code’s MSB set , the client's  application program can recognize the 
exception response and can examine the data field for the exception code.  
Data Field: In a normal response, the server  may return data or statistics in the data field 
(any information that was requeste d in the request). In an exception response, the server  
returns an exception code in the data field. This defines the server  condition that caused the 
exception.  
 
Example of a client  request and server exception response  
 
Request  Response  
Field Name  (Hex)  Field Name  (Hex)  
Function  01 Function  81 
Starting Address Hi  04 Exception Code  02 
Starting Address Lo  A1   
Quantity of Outputs Hi  00   
Quantity of Outputs Lo  01   
 
In this example, the client  addresses a request to server  device. The function code (01) is for 
a Read Output Status operation. It requests the status of the output at address 1185  (04A1 
hex). Note that only that one output is to be read, as specified by  the number of outputs field 
(0001).  
If the output address is non –existent in the server  device, the server  will return the exception 
response with the exception code shown (02). This specifies an illegal data address for the 
server . 
 
A listing of except ion codes begins on the next page.  
 
  