MODBUS Application Protocol Specification V1.1b3  Modbus  
April 26 , 20 12 http://w ww.modbus.org  48/50 
MODBUS Exception Codes  
Code  Name  Meaning  
01 ILLEGAL FUNCTION  The function code received in the query is not an 
allowable action for the server . This may be 
because the function code is only applicable to 
newer devices, and was not implemented in the 
unit selected. It could also indicate that the server  
is in the wrong state to process a request of this 
type, for example because it is unconfigure d and 
is being asked to return register values.  
02 ILLEGAL DATA ADDRESS  The data address received in the query is not an 
allowable address for the server . More 
specifically, the combination of reference number 
and transfer length is invalid. For a control ler with 
100 registers, the PDU addresses the first register 
as 0, and the last one as 99. If a request is 
submitted with a starting register address of 96 
and a quantity of registers of 4, then this request 
will successfully operate (address -wise at least ) 
on registers 96, 97, 98, 99. If a request is 
submitted with a starting register address of 96 
and a quantity of registers of 5, then this request 
will fail with Exception Code 0x02 “Illegal Data 
Address” since it attempts to operate on registers 
96, 97, 98, 99 and 100, and there is no register 
with address 100.  
03 ILLEGAL DATA VALUE  A value contained in the query data field is not an 
allowable value for server . This indicates a fault in 
the structure of the remainder of a complex 
request, such as that th e implied length is 
incorrect. It specifically does NOT mean that a 
data item submitted for storage in a register has a 
value outside the expectation of the application 
program, since the MODBUS protocol is unaware 
of the significance of any particular val ue of any 
particular register.  
04 SERVER  DEVICE FAILURE  An unrecoverable error occurred while the server  
was attempting to perform the requested action.  
05 ACKNOWLEDGE  Specialized use in conjunction with programming 
commands.  
The server  has accepted the request and is 
processing it, but a long duration of time will be 
required to do so. This response is returned to 
prevent a timeout error from occurring in the 
client. The client can next issue a Poll Program 
Complete message to determine if processing is 
completed.  
06 SERVER  DEVICE BUSY  Specialized use in conjunction with programming 
commands.  
The server  is engaged in processing a long –
duration program command. The client  should 
retransmit the message later when the server  is 
free.  
08 MEMORY PARITY ERROR  Specialized use in conjunction with function codes 
20 and 21 and reference type 6, to indicate that 
the extended file area failed to pass a consistency 
check.  
The server  attempted to read record file, but 
detected a parity error in the memory. The client 
can retry the request, but service may be required 