Chapter 1. Introduction
1.1. Goal of this document
The goal of this document is to describe a number of architecture related topics for OCPP 2.1 . It is not fundamentally different
from the version for OCPP 2.0.1.
OCPP was originally intended for two way communication between a backoffice, in OCPP the Charging Station Management System
(in this document: CSMS) and a Charging Station. The protocol has become more advanced and with every new revision new
functionalities and options are added. It has evolved into a protocol that can be used in different architectures for different types of
Charging Stations.
This document describes, in addition to the original "simple" setup CSMS <> Charging Station, a number of topologies as an
additional explanation for using OCPP. Furthermore, the Device Management concept to configure and monitor any type of
Charging Station, the OCPP Information Model and the 3-tier model are explained.
This document is partially informative and partially normative and is not intended to limit the use of OCPP. However, it does add an
explanation what kind of use of OCPP the creators of OCPP had in mind when creating this version of the specification. This
document is therefore also intended to support the reader of the protocol specification in Part 2 of OCPP to understand how it can
be used.
1.2. Terms and abbreviations
This section contains the terminology and abbreviations that are used throughout this document.
1.2.1. Terms
Term Meaning
Charging Location A group of one or more Charging Stations that belong together geographically or spatially.
Charging Station The Charging Station is the physical system where EVs can be charged. A Charging Station
has one or more EVSEs.
Connector The term Connector, as used in this specification, refers to an independently operated and
managed electrical outlet on a Charging Station. In other words, this corresponds to a single
physical Connector. In some cases an EVSE may have multiple physical socket types and/or
tethered cable/Connector arrangements(i.e. Connectors) to facilitate different vehicle types
(e.g. four-wheeled EVs and electric scooters).
EVSE An EVSE is considered as an independently operated and managed part of the Charging
Station that can deliver energy to one EV at a time.
Local port Smart Meter The local port on a Smart Meter is a port (for example serial) on a digital electricity meter
that provides access to information about meter readings and usage.
1.2.2. Abbreviations
Abbreviation Meaning
DSO Distribution System Operator
CSO Charging Station Operator
CSMS Charging Station Management System
EMS Energy Management System. In this document this is defined as a device that manages the local loads
(consumption an production) based on local and/or contractual constraints and/or contractual incentives. It
has additional inputs, such as sensors and controls from e.g. PV, battery storage.
EVSE Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment
LC Local Controller. In this document this is defined as a device that can send messages to its Charging
Stations, independently of the CSMS. A typical usage for this is the local smart charging case described in
the Smart Charging chapter of Part 2 of OCPP, where a Local Controller can impose charge limits on its
Charging Stations.
LP Local Proxy. Acts as a message router.
Edition 2, 2025-12-03
OCPP 2.1 Edition 2 - © Open Charge Alliance 2025 3/22 Part 1 - Architecture & Topology