Chapter 3. Device Model: Addressing Components and Variables
The Device Model refers to a generalized mechanism within OCPP to enable any model of Charging Station to report how it is build
up, so it can be managed from any CSMS. To manage a Charging Station with the Device Model (i.e. "to manage a device") a
number of messages and use cases is defined to configure and monitor a Charging Station in detail, without defining the structure
of the Charging Station in advance. To be able do do this, OCPP provides a generalized mechanism to allow the exchange of a wide
range of information about Charging Station. This version of the Device Model has the 3-tier model (Charging Station, EVSE,
Connector) as its starting point, which means that any description created with the Device Model follows these three tiers. The
remainder of this chapter describes how the data (and associated meta-data) looks like that can be exchanged between a Charging
Station and a CSMS. The use cases and messages that are used to manage a device are not described here, but in Part 2 of the
specification. This chapter only focuses on the data model.
3.1. Components
In OCPP 2.1 , a Charging Station is modelled as a set of "Components", typically representing physical devices (including any
external equipment to which it is connected for data gathering and/or control), logical functionality, or logical data entities.
Components of different types are primarily identified by a ComponentName, that is either the name of a standardized component
(see OCPP part 2c), or a custom/non-standardized component name, for new, pre-standardized equipment, vendor specific
extensions, etc.
ChargingStation (TopLevel), EVSE, and Connector represent the three major "tiers" of a Charging Station, and constitute an implicit
"location-based" addressing scheme that is widely used in many OCPP data structures. Each "tier" has a component of the same
name, which represents the tier.
For example, EVSE 1 on a Charging Station is represented by the component named "EVSE" (no instance name) with "evseId = 1". In
the same manner, Connector 1 on EVSE 1 is represented by the component named "Connector" (no instance name) with "evseId = 1,
connectorId = 1".
By default, all components are located at the ChargingStation tier, but individual instances of any component can be associated with
a specific EVSE, or a specific Connector (on a specific EVSE) by including EVSE or EVSE and Connector identification numbers as
part of a component addressing reference.
Additionally, there can be more than one instance of a component (in the functional dimension), representing multi-occurrence
physical or logical components (e.g. power converter modules, fan banks, resident firmware images, etc.).
Each distinct component instance is uniquely identified by an (optional) componentInstance addressing key. It is allowed for a
component to exist without an instance and at the same time also exist with one of more instances. When no componentInstance is
provided, then the component without an instance is referenced.
Components do not in themselves hold data: all externally accessible data associated with each component instance is
represented by a set of variables that can be read, set, and/or monitored for changes. The relationship of a Component with one or
more Variables is illustrated in below.
ComponentType
Name
Instance [0..1]
VariableType
Name
Instance [0..1]
EVSEType
Id
ConnectorId [0..1]
1
0..1
1
*
Figure 2. Component and variables
The table below illustrates some common components (by their standardized component-names), and examples of the hierarchical
location levels at which they typically occur for a basic home charger and a typical public Charging Station.
Basic home charger example configuration
ChargingStation tier EVSE tier Connector tier
ChargingStation (itself, as a whole) EVSE (itself, as a whole) Connector (itself, as a whole)
Edition 2, 2025-12-03
OCPP 2.1 Edition 2 - © Open Charge Alliance 2025 5/22 Part 1 - Architecture & Topology