Chapter 8. Topologies supported by OCPP
This chapter shows a number of topologies for using OCPP. As indicated in the introduction, OCPP was originally used for a setup
where each Charging Station communicates directly with the CSMS. It is important to keep in mind that OCPP has no knowledge of
the topology of the Charging Station network. The following figure shows an example of a more complex topology where OCPP is
used between CSMS, Local Controller and Charging Station, and other protocols are being used between EMS (Energy Management
System) and Local Controller, and the smart grid meter and the Charging Station.
Site
Local Controller
Charging
Station 1
Charging
Station 2
EMS
e.g. PV, meter, battery
Smart Meter
CSMS
Third Parties
e.g. aggregator
<other>
<other> OCPP
OCPP OCPP
Figure 6. Example of a topology with OCPP and non-OCPP components
8.1. Charging Station(s) directly connected to CSMS
Description
This is the basic setup for using OCPP.
CSMS
Charging
Station
OCPP
Figure 7. Charging Station directly connected to CSMS
8.2. Multiple Charging Stations connected to CSMS via Local Proxy
Description
In some situations it is desirable to route all communications for a group of Charging Stations through a single network node (i.e.
modem, router, etc.). A typical example is the situation where a number of a Charging Stations are located in an underground
parking garage with little or no access to the mobile network. In order to provide access to mobile data the Charging Stations are
linked to a central data communications unit over a LAN. This central unit connects to the mobile network and acts as a proxy
between CSMS and Charging Stations. Such a unit is called a "local proxy" (LP) in OCPP. A local proxy acts as a message router.
Neither the CSMS nor the Charging Stations are aware of the topology of the network. For the Charging Stations in the group the
local proxy "is" the CSMS. Similarly, for the CSMS the local proxy "is" the Charging Station. The diagram below illustrates this
configuration.
Edition 2, 2025-12-03
OCPP 2.1 Edition 2 - © Open Charge Alliance 2025 15/22 Part 1 - Architecture & Topology