Chapter 9. Energy management topologies supported by OCPP
(New in OCPP 2.1)
This chapter describes various topologies that can be used when combining an external actor for energy management with
Charging Stations. The external actor can be a full-fledged (home) energy management system, often abbreviated as EMS or HEMS,
but it can also be a smart meter that provides a maximum power limit. It is not meant to be an exhaustive list of possibilities, and in
the future other topologies may become possible.
In the diagrams the following convention is used for the connectors between components:
Legend
a b
measurements
control
ocpp
9.1. Parallel control of charging station by CSMS and smart meter
In this setup a Charging Station is connected to a smart meter of the grid connection for the premise. The smart meter provides a
charging limit to the Charging Station, such that the power consumption of the Charging Station will be reduced if the capacity of
the grid connection is about to be reached.
Site
Charging
Station
Smart Meter
Grid
Connection
CSMS
Third Parties
e.g. aggregator
OCPP
Figure 12. Parallel control by CSMS and smart meter
9.2. Parallel control of charging location by CSMS and EMS
In this setup a Charging Location with one or more Charging Stations is equipped with an Energy Management System (EMS).
CSMS controls the Charging Stations via OCPP, but local load-balancing on-site is controlled by the EMS. EMS will have its own
connection to a Charging Station, using its own protocol, for example Modbus. If a Charging Station receives a charging constraint
from EMS, then it will represent this constraint internally as an OCPP charging profile with purpose
ChargingStationExternalConstraints. This charging profile is combined with other charging profiles that it might receive
from CSMS. When such an external constraint is received by the Charging Station, it will immediately report this constraint to CSMS
via the NotifyChargingLimitRequest message. A limitation of this topology is that EMS is not aware of OCPP information that is
exchanged between Charging Station and CSMS. EMS can therefore not know who is charging at a Charging Station, or what the
specific charging needs of a user are. Local balancing based on user needs (e.g. time of departure) or priorities is not possible in
this topology.
Edition 2, 2025-12-03
OCPP 2.1 Edition 2 - © Open Charge Alliance 2025 18/22 Part 1 - Architecture & Topology