3.2. JSON Schema files do allow for extra fields within inner objects.
It is not allowed to add extra fields/values to OCPP messages, this could cause interoperability issues in the field.
The WSDL files are correct, the original JSON Schema files allow extra fields on inner objects and extra values on
enums, which was not intended.
Most of the JSON Schema files have been updated to fix this. The line: "additionalProperties": false has
been added to the definition of all object and enum definitions.
3.3. No definition of: 'failure to process the message'
The OCPP 1.6 spec points to the OCPP-J spec for a definition on how a JSON implementation should respond to a
request to indicate: 'failure to process message', but there was no definition of: 'failure to process the message'
in the OCPP-J spec.
To following text should be added to: Page 9, par 3.2:
"For a definition on how a server SHALL report a 'failure to process the message', see: CallError"
To following text should be added to: Page 13, par 4.2.3:
"When a server needs to report a 'failure to process the message', the server SHALL use a Message Type:
CallError (MessageTypeNumber = 4)."
3.4. Page 8, section: 3.2: Missing Charge Point should retry after having received
HTTP 404.
When a Charge Point tries to connect the a Central System, the Central System, when it does not know the
Charge Point might reject the connection by responding with HTTP 404 as defined in Section 3.2.
The Charge Point is then expected to retry the connection every X times, same as with the BootNotification, but
this is not specified.
Addition text for the first bullet in Section 3.2
Additional text The Charge Point SHALL retry with an appropriate back-off mechanism to prevent overloading the Central System.
3.5. Page 10, section: 4.1.1: Synchronicity explanation can be improved
Not clear to all implementers that the Central System does not have to wait for a response from Charging
Station 1 when sending something to Charging Station 2.
The following is to be added at the end of the first paragraph
Additional text This does not mean that the Central System cannot send a message to another Charge Point, while waiting for a response of a
first Charge Point, this rule is per OCPP-J connection.
8