MIPI CSI/DSI IP  
User Guide 
 
 
© 2026 Lattice Semiconductor Corp. All Lattice trademarks, registered trademarks, patents, and disclaimers are as listed at www.latticesemi.com/legal.  
All other brand or product names are trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective holders. The specifications and information herein are subject to change without notice. 
FPGA-IPUG-02321-1.2  10 
1. Introduction 
The Lattice™ MIPI® CSI/DSI IP provides a flexible solution for transmission and reception of high-speed video data over 
a Mobile Industry Processor Interface (MIPI)-compatible D-PHY interface in FPGA designs. MIPI enables high-speed, 
low-power video transmission between components such as cameras and displays, and is widely used in smartphones, 
automotive systems, industrial equipment, and Internet of Things (IoT) devices.  
1.1. Overview of the IP 
The Lattice MIPI CSI/DSI IP transmitter supports the Camera Serial Interface-2 (CSI-2) protocol while the receiver 
supports CSI-2 and Display Serial Interface-2 (DSI-2) protocols. The IP operates in both high-speed and low power 
modes and supports up to 1,500 Mbps per lane with Soft D-PHY implementation and up to 2,500 Mbps per lane with 
Hard D-PHY implementation. 
In transmitter mode, video data received from the upstream pipeline can arrive through either the Unified Video 
Streaming Interface (UVSI) or the MIPI Byte Streaming Interface (MBSI). 
When sourced from UVSI, the pixel-based video data is first converted into byte-aligned format by the Pixel-to-Byte 
(P2B) block. In contrast, data received through MBSI is already byte-formatted and is routed directly to the controller 
without P2B conversion. The processed byte stream is then handled by the controller, serialized, and transmitted 
through the PHY for seamless delivery to the connected receiver. 
In receiver mode, incoming video data is received through the PHY, processed by the controller, and converted through 
the Byte-to-Pixel (B2P) block into UVSI or MBSI packets for seamless integration with downstream video pipelines.   
 
Figure 1.1. MIPI CSI/DSI IP Overview 
1.2. Quick Facts 
Table 1.1. Summary of the MIPI CSI/DSI IP 
IP Requirements Supported Devices CrossLink™-NX, Certus™-NX, CertusPro™-NX, MachXO5™-NX 
IP Changes1 Refer to the MIPI CSI/DSI IP Release Notes (FPGA-RN-02112). 
Resource Utilization Supported User Interface UVSI AXI4-Stream, MBSI AXI4-Stream, AXI4-Lite 
Resources Refer to the Resource Utilization section. 
Design Tool Support 
Lattice Implementation IP Core v4.2.0 – Lattice Radiant™ Software 2026.1 
Synthesis Synopsys® Synplify Pro for Lattice 
Simulation Refer to the Lattice Radiant software user guide for the list of 
supported simulators. 
Note: 
1. In some instances, the IP may be updated without changes to the user guide. This user guide may reflect an earlier IP version 
but remains fully compatible with the later IP version. Refer to the IP Release Notes for the latest updates. 