MIPI CSI/DSI IP  
User Guide 
 
 
© 2026 Lattice Semiconductor Corp. All Lattice trademarks, registered trademarks, patents, and disclaimers are as listed at www.latticesemi.com/legal.  
All other brand or product names are trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective holders. The specifications and information herein are subject to change without notice. 
FPGA-IPUG-02321-1.2  33 
logic delays) further throttle the serial streaming output and the actual frame rate measured is less than the example 
above. 
The horizontal or vertical blanking period required to be inserted in TX can be configured using the following settings 
from the IP Wizard GUI or CSR registers: 
• Number of Vertical Blanking Lines Per Frame (NUM_LINE_V_BLANKING field in CONFIG_REG1 register)  
• Number of Horizontal Blanking Bytes in Byte Clock Domain (H_BLANKING_BYTES_TH field in CONFIG_REG1 
register) 
• Number of Horizontal Active Bytes in Byte Clock Domain (NUM_BYTES_ACTIVE_H field in CONFIG_REG2 register)  
Refer to the Horizontal and Vertical Blanking Period Insertion Tuning section for more details. 
2.9. MIPI CSI/DSI Receiver PHY Block 
The PHY block (D-PHY receiver) is the physical interface that receives MIPI D-PHY signals from differential pairs and 
converts the signals to parallel byte data. The PHY block supports the Soft D-PHY and Hard D-PHY modes. 
This block performs the following key functions: 
• Clock recovery: Generates and distributes byte clock (byte_clk_o) from incoming MIPI clock lane. 
• Deserialization: Uses DDR for 8-bit deserialization. 
• Word alignment: Detects the 0xB8 SoTp and aligns incoming data. 
• Low power and high-speed control: Manages LP-HS transitions. 
• Deskew calibration: Ensures data received on multiple lanes is aligned and synchronized.  This feature is supported 
only when PHY Mode is set to Hard D-PHY. 
2.10. MIPI CSI/DSI Receiver Controller Block 
The RX controller block processes byte data from the PHY into MIPI packet headers and payloads. The block handles 
lane alignment, lane merging, and depacketization with error detection and correction.  
This block performs the following key functions: 
• Lane alignment: Aligns data across multiple lanes using FIFO-based buffering and SoTp detection. 
• Lane merge: Combines aligned lane data into a single stream, performs width conversion, byte reordering, and 
propagates end-of-packet indicators. During width conversion, this block merges the data into 32-bit or 64-bit 
streams based on lane count. The 64-bit controller mode is for PHY Data Width of 16 with 4 data lanes. All other 
PHY Data Width and lane combinations are treated as 32-bit controller mode. 
• Depacketization: Extracts headers and payloads. This depacketizer enforces minimum word count requirement 
based on selected configuration as shown in Table 2.7. This limitation is applicable for supported streaming 
interfaces. 
• Error detection and correction: ECC for D-PHY (1-bit correction, 2-bit detection) and CRC for headers and payloads 
with dedicated error flags. 
• Byte streaming source: Converts internal short and long packets to the AXI4-Stream protocol in byte domain and 
handles backpressure. 
Table 2.7. MIPI CSI/DSI Receiver Word Count Support Limitation 
PHY Direction PHY Mode Protocol Mode Controller Mode Minimum Word Count 
Limitation (Bytes) 
RX Soft D-PHY or Hard 
D-PHY 
DSI-2 32-bit 14 
RX Soft D-PHY or Hard 
D-PHY 
CSI-2 32-bit 6 
RX Hard D-PHY DSI-2 64-bit 34 
RX Hard D-PHY CSI-2 64-bit 10 
Note: 
1. 64-bit controller mode is only supported in Hard D-PHY with 4 lanes configuration. 