MIPI CSI/DSI IP  
User Guide 
 
 
© 2026 Lattice Semiconductor Corp. All Lattice trademarks, registered trademarks, patents, and disclaimers are as listed at www.latticesemi.com/legal.  
All other brand or product names are trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective holders. The specifications and information herein are subject to change without notice. 
FPGA-IPUG-02321-1.2  36 
3. IP Parameter Description 
The configurable attributes of the MIPI CSI/DSI IP are shown in the following tables. You can configure the IP by setting 
the attributes accordingly in the IP Catalog Module/IP Block Wizard of the Lattice Radiant software.  
Wherever applicable, default values are in bold. 
3.1. General 
Table 3.1. General Attributes 
Attribute Selectable Values Description 
PHY Configuration 
PHY Direction TX, RX Selects the operating direction of the PHY. 
PHY Mode Soft D-PHY, Hard D-PHY Selects the physical layer implementation.  
Only CrossLink-NX devices support Hard D-PHY.  
PHY Data Width 8, 16 Defines the width of the deserialized data stream per lane in bits.  
PHY Data Width = 16 is available only when PHY Mode is set to Hard 
D-PHY. 
Not editable. For information only. 
Number of D-PHY Lanes 1, 2, 4 Specifies the number of data lanes. D-PHY supports up to 4 lanes (1-
wire differential signaling per lane).  
Line Rate Per Lane (Mbps)1 160–1500, 1000 (Soft D-
PHY) 
320–2500, 1000 (Hard D-
PHY) 
Maximum bandwidth when PHY Direction is TX. 
Set the data rate per lane in Mbps for D-PHY. This determines the 
maximum bandwidth capability of each lane. 
80–1500, 1000 (Soft 
DPHY) 
160–2500, 1000 (Hard 
DPHY) 
Maximum bandwidth when PHY Direction is RX. 
Set the data rate per lane in Mbps for D-PHY. This determines the 
maximum bandwidth capability of each lane. 
Actual Byte Clock 
Frequency (MHz) 
10–187.5, 125 Operating byte clock frequency of the IP.  
The value is Line Rate per Lane (Mbps)/ PHY Data Width. 
Not editable. For information only. 
Actual D-PHY Clock 
Frequency (MHz) 
40–1250, 500 Operating frequency of the PHY layer. 
The value is Line Rate per Lane (Mbps)/2. 
Not editable. For information only. 
PHY Clock Mode Continuous, 
Non-Continuous 
Configures the clock mode for Soft D-PHY. Continuous mode keeps 
the clock lane in high-speed clock. Non-continuous mode allows the 
clock to enter low power state between high-speed data 
transmissions. 
Edge Clock Mode Internal, External Selects the source of the edge clock used by the Soft D-PHY TX. Edge 
clock is the high-speed per-bank clock network in Lattice FPGAs that 
drives DDR I/O elements and synchronizes PHY data transitions. Refer 
to the MIPI CSI/DSI Transmitter Edge Clock Sharing section. 
 
Internal: The Soft D-PHY TX generates its own edge clock using 
internal edge clock synchronizer and divider resources. Use this mode 
when the D-PHY operates independently and can use dedicated 
per-bank edge clock resources. 
 
External: The Soft D-PHY TX receives edge clock from another D-PHY 
TX instance, enabling multiple TX instances in the same bank to share 
a common edge clock source. Use this mode to optimize clock 
resources and maintain synchronization across multiple TX instances 
running at the same bit rate. 
 