MIPI CSI/DSI IP  
User Guide 
 
 
© 2026 Lattice Semiconductor Corp. All Lattice trademarks, registered trademarks, patents, and disclaimers are as listed at www.latticesemi.com/legal.  
All other brand or product names are trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective holders. The specifications and information herein are subject to change without notice. 
FPGA-IPUG-02321-1.2  37 
Attribute Selectable Values Description 
This setting is available only when PHY Direction is set to TX. 
Reference Clock Frequency 
(MHz) 
60 (Soft D-PHY) 
60–200, 100 (Hard D-PHY) 
Sets the operating frequency of the clock domain for soft PHY related 
components in Soft D-PHY mode. 
Sets the reference clock frequency of the internal PLL for hard PHY 
related components in Hard D-PHY mode. 
Controller 
Protocol Mode DSI-2, CSI-2 Selects the MIPI protocol type. CSI-2 is optimized for camera and 
imaging applications with support for image data types and timing. 
DSI-2 is designed for display applications with video-specific packet 
structures and flow control mechanisms. DSI-2 is available only when 
PHY Direction is set to RX. 
ECC Insert (TX) / ECC Check 
(RX) 
checked, unchecked Enables or disables ECC insertion for TX and ECC checking for RX. 
Disabling ECC can reduce IP resource usage. 
 
PHY Direction == TX: 
When checked, the IP recalculates ECC and updates the packet 
header with VC and VCX value provided in the sideband signal. Refer 
to the MIPI Byte Streaming Interface (MBSI) section. 
This setting is available only when PHY Direction == TX and MIPI BYTE 
Streaming Interface (MBSI) is checked.  
 
PHY Direction == RX: 
By default, the IP enables ECC checking. The 6‑bit packet header ECC 
can correct single‑bit errors and detect two‑bit errors in the D‑PHY 
configuration. 
In Passthrough Mode, the IP transmits the original ECC received in 
axis_byte_tdata_o.  
This setting is available only when PHY Direction == RX and Protocol 
Mode == CSI2. When Protocol Mode == DSI2, this is always enabled to 
qualify valid header assertion. 
CRC Insert (TX) / CRC Check 
(RX) 
checked, unchecked Enables or disables CRC insertion for TX and CRC checking for RX. 
Disabling CRC can reduce the IP resource usage. 
 
PHY Direction == TX: 
When checked, the IP recalculates CRC checksum and updates the 
packet footer with recalculated CRC checksum for each long packet. 
Refer to the MIPI Byte Streaming Interface (MBSI) section. 
This setting is available only when PHY Direction == TX and MIPI BYTE 
Streaming Interface (MBSI) is checked. 
 
PHY Direction == RX: 
By default, the IP enables CRC checking. A checksum is computed 
over the WC bytes of each long packet. 
Enable AXI4-Lite Interface checked, unchecked Enables the AXI4-Lite bus used for accessing IP registers. 
Dynamic Reconfiguration checked, unchecked When checked, the IP enables dynamic reconfiguration feature 
through the AXI4-Lite interface register access. Refer to the Dynamic 
Reconfiguration section for details. 
This setting is available only when Enable AXI4-Lite Interface is 
checked. 
Streaming Interface 
Unified Video Streaming 
Interface (UVSI) 
checked, unchecked When checked, the IP enables transmission and reception of pixel 
data via the UVSI AXI4-Stream interface. Refer to the Unified Video 
Streaming Interface (UVSI) section for details. 
MIPI Byte Streaming 
Interface (MBSI) 
checked, unchecked When checked, the IP enables transmission and reception of byte 
data via the MBSI AXI4-Stream interface. The IP maps internal high 