MIPI CSI/DSI IP  
User Guide 
 
 
© 2026 Lattice Semiconductor Corp. All Lattice trademarks, registered trademarks, patents, and disclaimers are as listed at www.latticesemi.com/legal.  
All other brand or product names are trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective holders. The specifications and information herein are subject to change without notice. 
FPGA-IPUG-02321-1.2  38 
Attribute Selectable Values Description 
speed packet signals (header and byte data) to AXI4-Stream (TVALID, 
TREADY, TDATA, TUSER, TLAST). Refer to the MIPI Byte Streaming 
Interface (MBSI) section for details. 
Passthrough Mode checked Not editable. For information only when MIPI Byte Streaming 
Interface == checked. 
 
PHY Direction == TX: Externally formatted MIPI packets (byte format) 
are received via MBSI. TDATA carries short packets, header for long 
packets, payload, and footer while TUSER provides VCX and VC fields. 
 
PHY Direction == RX: Bytes are forwarded in the same order defined 
by the MIPI specification. TDATA carries header for long packets, 
payload, and footer while TUSER provides VCX and VC fields. 
Video Format 
Line Start and Line End checked, unchecked Checked: Activates LS and LE short‑packet generation. When enabled, 
the video timing FSM issues Line Start and Line End short packet 
markers at each line boundary to indicate the beginning and end of 
active video lines. 
 
Unchecked: Disables LS and LE short‑packet generation. The video 
timing FSM suppresses line‑boundary markers and does not emit LS 
or LE short packets. 
 
This setting is available only when PHY Direction is set to TX. 
Line Number Insertion checked, unchecked Checked: The module inserts the line number into the Line Start (LS) 
and Line End (LE) short packets.  
 
Unchecked: The line number field in both LS and LE packets is forced 
to 0. 
 
This setting is available only when PHY Direction is set to TX and Line 
Start and Line End is checked. 
Blanking Enable checked, unchecked Checked: Inserts additional horizontal line or vertical frame blanking 
period duration for the LP11 state after the end of long packet 
transmission. When enabled, the video timing FSM inserts additional 
blanking period duration as follows:  
For horizontal line blanking period: 
Line Start and Line End enabled:  
The horizontal line blanking period is inserted in the LP11 state 
between the LE packet to the next LS packet. 
 
Line Start and Line End disabled:  
The horizontal line blanking period is inserted in the LP11 state 
between the end of a long packet to the beginning of the next long 
packet. 
 
For vertical frame blanking period: 
The vertical frame blanking period is inserted in the LP11 state 
between the current FE packet to the subsequent FS packet. 
 
Unchecked: Only minimal duration for LP11 state after the end of a 
long packet transmission or the LP to HS transition.  
Refer to the MIPI CSI/DSI Transmitter Blanking Insertion section. 
This setting is available only when PHY Direction is set to TX. 
Number of Horizontal 1–65535,2400 Indicates the number of horizontal active bytes of the video frame 