MIPI CSI/DSI IP  
User Guide 
 
 
© 2026 Lattice Semiconductor Corp. All Lattice trademarks, registered trademarks, patents, and disclaimers are as listed at www.latticesemi.com/legal.  
All other brand or product names are trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective holders. The specifications and information herein are subject to change without notice. 
FPGA-IPUG-02321-1.2  39 
Attribute Selectable Values Description 
Active Bytes in Byte Clock 
Domain   
per lane. The video timing FSM uses this value to determine the total 
horizontal period of the video frame and calculate the vertical frame 
blanking period. 
For example, Horizontal Pixel or Width of 1920 for RAW10 format: 
Total Horizontal Pixel Bytes = (H_active × BPC)/8 
= (1920 × 10)/8 
= 2400 bytes 
Number of Horizontal Active Bytes per lane = Total Horizontal Pixel 
Bytes/Number of D-PHY Lanes 
 
This is equivalent to the number of byte clock cycles required for 
active packet transmission where each byte clock transfers 
8 bits/byte per byte clock cycle for each lane at the PHY serial 
interface. 
 
This setting is available only when PHY Direction is set to TX and 
Blanking Enable is checked. 
Number of Horizontal 
Blanking Bytes in Byte 
Clock Domain  
0–65535 Indicates the number of horizontal blanking bytes of the video frame 
per lane. The video timing FSM uses this value to determine the total 
horizontal period of the video frame and calculate the vertical frame 
blanking period. 
For example, Horizontal Blanking Pixel or Width of 280 for RAW10 
format: 
Number of Horizontal Blanking Bytes per lane = (H_blank × BPC)/8 
= (280 × 10)/8 
= 350 bytes  
 
Set this to zero for no additional horizontal line blanking period 
insertion. A minimum horizontal blanking period value is imposed on 
the LP11 state by the video timing FSM based on a specific setting 
configured in the TX. 
This is equivalent to the number of byte clock cycles required for 
blanking period where each byte clock transfers 8 bits/byte per byte 
clock cycle at the PHY serial interface. 
 
This setting is available only when PHY Direction is set to TX and 
Blanking Enable is checked. 
Number of Vertical 
Blanking Lines Per Frame  
0–65535 Indicates how many vertical blanking lines compose a video frame. 
The video timing FSM uses this value to determine the total vertical 
frame blanking period of the video frame between the End of Frame 
(FE) and Start of Frame (FS) short packets. 
Set this to zero for no additional vertical frame blanking period 
insertion. A minimum vertical frame blanking period value is imposed 
on the LP11 state by the video timing FSM based on a specific setting 
configured in the TX. 
 
This setting is available only when PHY Direction is set to TX and 
Blanking Enable is checked. 
Number of Active Lines Per 
Frame 
1–65535, 48 Indicates how many active lines compose a video frame. The video 
timing FSM uses this value to track line progression and determine 
the frame boundary positions for generating Start of Frame (FS) and 
End of Frame (FE) short packets. 
This setting is available only when PHY Direction is set to TX. 
Number of Pixel per Clock 
(PPC) 
1, 2, 4 Defines how many pixels are processed per clock cycle in the Pixel-to-
Byte and Byte-to-Pixel conversion blocks. Higher PPC values increase 
throughput but require more parallel processing resources. The 