MIPI CSI/DSI IP  
User Guide 
 
 
© 2026 Lattice Semiconductor Corp. All Lattice trademarks, registered trademarks, patents, and disclaimers are as listed at www.latticesemi.com/legal.  
All other brand or product names are trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective holders. The specifications and information herein are subject to change without notice. 
FPGA-IPUG-02321-1.2  43 
Notes: 
1. The maximum data rate depends on the family, package, and performance grade of the device. Check the device data sheet for 
more information. 
2. Only one color format can be enabled at a time. 
3. The duration of the timing parameter is equal to (byte clock period) × (attribute value). 
4. The default value of this parameter is equal to floor((Minimum timing parameter value/ByteClk Period) + 1). 
5. The timing parameters are in number of byte clock cycles. The IP automatically calculates the timing parameters (in byte-clock 
cycles) to meet the required timing limits. You must verify that the selected values meet your overall system timing, as actual 
D-PHY lane timing may vary because of internal serialization and register delays. 
Attribute Selectable Values Description 
Default value of t_CLK-ZERO = ceil(Minimum timing parameter 
value/ByteClk Period). 
t_CLK-PRE 2–255 Duration of the HS clock prior to the start of the LP-to-HS sequence of the 
data lanes. 
Default value of t_CLK-PRE = ceil((Minimum timing parameter value/ 
ByteClk Period) + 1). 
t_CLK-POST 2–2554 Duration of the HS clock after the last associated data lane has 
transitioned to LP mode. 
The interval is defined as the period from the end of tHS-TRAIL to the 
beginning of tCLK-TRAIL.  
t_CLK-TRAIL 2–255 Duration of the HS-0 state after the last clock bit of an HS transmission 
burst. 
Default value of t_CLK-TRAIL = floor((Minimum timing parameter 
value/ByteClk Period) + 2). 
t_CLK-EXIT 1–2554 Duration of the clock LP-11 state following an HS transmission burst to 
the next HS transmission burst in non-continuous clock mode. 
t_SKEWCAL-INITIAL 215–100 µs Duration of the initial skew calibration. Default value is close to 215 UI. 
This setting is available only when Enable Initial Skew Calibration is 
checked. 
t_SKEWCAL-PERIODIC 210–10 µs Duration of the periodic skew calibration. Default value is close to 210 UI. 
This setting is available only when Enable Periodic Skew Calibration is 
checked. 