MIPI CSI/DSI IP  
User Guide 
 
 
© 2026 Lattice Semiconductor Corp. All Lattice trademarks, registered trademarks, patents, and disclaimers are as listed at www.latticesemi.com/legal.  
All other brand or product names are trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective holders. The specifications and information herein are subject to change without notice. 
FPGA-IPUG-02321-1.2  68 
TX PLL IP 
The TX PLL generates 456 MHz clock output for the PHY clock of the MIPI CSI TX IP. 
7.3.1.6. I2C Subsystem 
The I2C subsystem serves as the I2C communication link between FPGA and external components such as sensor 
camera and the Raspberry Pi 5 board. The I2C subsystem consists of Lattice IPs such as I2C Controller, I2C Target, and 
custom components such as I2C bridge, sensor LMMI driver, and I2C APB driver. In this example design, the I2C 
subsystem initializes the camera sensor via the static ROM configuration setting from FPGA through the I2C 
communication. In addition, the I2C subsystem bypasses the Raspberry Pi 5 OS initialization to the camera sensor with 
a dummy ACK response during driver probing. 
I2C Subsystem
I2C Target
T
Custom IP
External Hardware
Lattice Propel Software IP
Interconnect Connection
I2C Serial ConnectionI2C APB 
Driver
C
Sensor 
LMMI Driver
C
I2C Controller
T
I2C BridgeCamera 
Sensor
Raspberry 
Pi 5  
C Controller
T Target
 
Figure 7.3. I2C Subsystem Diagram 
I2C Target IP 
The general purpose I2C Target IP provides device addressing, read and write operations, and an acknowledgement 
mechanism. The programmable nature of the FPGA provides flexibility of configuring the I2C target device to any legal 
target address, avoiding a potential target address collision on an I2C bus with multiple target devices. In this example 
design, the I2C Target IP is used for ACK response to the Raspberry Pi 5 OS during the I2C driver probing after power 
up. 
For more information about the IP including register map information, refer to the I2C Target IP User Guide (FPGA-
IPUG-02072). 
I2C Controller IP 
The general purpose I2C Controller IP controls an I2C bus. The programmable nature of the FPGA provides flexibility of 
configuring the I2C controller device, allowing you to customize the I2C controller to meet your specific design 
requirements. In this example design, the I2C Controller IP is used together with the sensor LMMI driver to configure 
the IMX258 sensor camera via I2C communication after power up.  
For more information about the IP including register map information, refer to the I2C Controller IP User Guide (FPGA-
IPUG-02071). 
I2C Bridge 
The I2C bridge is used for I2C communication handshake between the FPGA with external components such as sensor 
camera and the Raspberry Pi 5 OS. The I2C bridge is responsible for propagating any I2C commands through the FPGA 