MIPI CSI/DSI IP  
User Guide 
 
 
© 2026 Lattice Semiconductor Corp. All Lattice trademarks, registered trademarks, patents, and disclaimers are as listed at www.latticesemi.com/legal.  
All other brand or product names are trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective holders. The specifications and information herein are subject to change without notice. 
FPGA-IPUG-02321-1.2  77 
12. From Raspberry Pi 5 OS, invoke the command terminal window. 
13. At the terminal, enter the following command: 
rpicam-hello --mode 1920:1080 --framerate 47 --awbgains 1.1,1.1 --timeout <preview 
duration in milliseconds> 
Example: 
rpicam-hello --mode 1920:1080 --framerate 47 --awbgains 1.1,1.1 --timeout 60000 
 
The preview session terminates automatically when the session has reached the timeout value specified in the 
command. 
The framerate option is set to 47 to force the Raspberry Pi 5 camera software to run in the 1920x1080 mode. The 
actual frame rate is based on the actual video transmission from the FPGA. 
For more information on the Raspberry Pi 5 OS camera software, refer to the camera software documentation in the 
Raspberry Pi web page. 
You must terminate the existing preview session in the Raspberry Pi 5 OS invoked from step 9 before changing the SW1 
DIP switch setting and performing system reset. Refer to the Setting Up the CertusPro-NX PCIe Vision Board section for 
details on the SW1 DIP switch settings. After you have changed the SW1 setting and performed system reset, invoke a 
new preview session per step 9. 
To terminate the existing preview session, navigate to the command terminal in the Raspberry Pi 5 OS where the 
current command from step 9 is invoked. On the keyboard connected to the Raspberry Pi 5 board, press the Ctrl+C keys 
to terminate the current session. 
7.9.6. Setting Up the Demo GUI Application 
The demo GUI application is supported only for Windows® Platform. For Linux Platform, you must ensure switch 5 from 
the Setting Up the CertusPro-NX PCIe Vision Board section is set to the default mode. 
For default mode, the pattern subsystem is configured to run only in Color Bar Pattern mode and BGGR CFA format.  
For Pattern Subsystem to TX mode, the pattern subsystem begins data transmission automatically after the ED system 
is out of reset when default mode is selected. 
For RX to TX Retransmit mode, the camera sensor begins data transmission automatically after the ED system is out of 
reset regardless of the switch 5 setting from the SW1 DIP switch. 
To set up the demo GUI application, follow these steps: 
1. Launch the video_control_gui.exe located in the <Generated IP component 
directory>/eval/mipi_vision_interopt/gui/ folder. 
2. Under UART Configuration, click Refresh. 
3. Select BaudRate: 115200. 
4. Select ByteSize: 8. 
5. Under UART Configuration, click Connect to establish the UART connection. The System Mode and Sensor Mode 
parameters indicate the current DIP switch settings selected on the FPGA board. The Pattern Subsystem section is 
greyed out if RX to TX Retransmit Mode is selected current DIP switch setting.  
6. Optionally, select Logs to display additional log sections in the GUI application. The Sent Log panel displays the 
command sent out from the GUI when a specific button is clicked. The Command Log panel displays the command 
received and processed in the RISC-V firmware. The General Log panel displays additional information in the RISC-V 
firmware. 
7. Click Read to retrieve the status information from the MIPI CSI TX IP and MIPI CSI RX IP . 