MIPI CSI/DSI IP  
User Guide 
 
 
© 2026 Lattice Semiconductor Corp. All Lattice trademarks, registered trademarks, patents, and disclaimers are as listed at www.latticesemi.com/legal.  
All other brand or product names are trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective holders. The specifications and information herein are subject to change without notice. 
FPGA-IPUG-02321-1.2  81 
8. Debugging 
This section lists possible issues and suggested troubleshooting steps that you can follow.  
8.1. Debug Methods 
8.1.1. PHY Clock Status in Transmitter Mode 
In transmitter mode, tinit_done_o is provided as an output status indicator to help you observe when the PHY has 
completed the initialization sequence and internal PHY reference clock has synchronized. 
This allows you to ensure that the PHY is fully initialized and ready for normal operation before starting any LP or HS 
transactions. For additional information, refer to Table 4.5. 
8.1.2. Generated byte_clk_o Does Not Toggle in Receiver Mode 
In non-continuous PHY clock mode, byte_clk_o toggles only during high-speed data transmission on the MIPI D-PHY 
lanes. In continuous PHY clock mode, byte_clk_o toggles all the time. 
If this clock does not toggle as expected: 
• Ensure the upstream source is active. For example, camera sensor or application processor. 
• Ensure the upstream device configuration matches the IP settings , such as PHY clock mode and bit rate. 
• Verify that all input clocks and reset signals to the IP module are correctly set up as recommended.  
8.1.3. Data Appears Corrupted in Receiver Mode 
If the IP output data appears corrupted when Unified Video Streaming Interface (UVSI) is enabled, check whether 
axis_vid_tready_i goes low during active packet transmission. If this signal remains low for more than (Pixel Buffer 
Depth–1) axis_vid_clk_i cycles, the internal buffer may overflow, leading to functional issues. To prevent overflow, 
ensure axis_vid_tready_i does not stay low beyond the allowed limit. For details, refer to the MIPI CSI/DSI Receiver 
UVSI section. 
If the IP output data appears corrupted when MIPI Byte Streaming Interface is enabled, do the same checking for 
axis_byte_tready_i deassertion with respect to (Byte Buffer Depth–1) fr_clk_i cycles. For details, refer to the MIPI 
CSI/DSI Receiver MBSI section. 
8.1.4. Missing Packets in Receiver Mode 
If there are any missing packets in the IP output data, check whether all input clock frequencies and tHS-PREPARE + tHS-ZERO 
timing requirements specified in the Limitations for MIPI CSI/DSI Receiver section are met. 
8.2. Debug Tools 
You can use various tools to debug MIPI CSI/DSI IP design issues.  
8.2.1. Reveal Analyzer 
The Lattice Reveal™ Analyzer continuously monitors signals within the FPGA for specific conditions that range from 
simple to complex conditions. When the trigger condition occurs, the Reveal Analyzer saves signal values preceding, 
during, and following the event for analysis, including a waveform presentation. The data can be saved in the following 
format: 
• Value change dump file (.vcd) that can be used with tools such as QuestaSim ®. 
• ASCII tabular format that can be used with tools such as Microsoft® Excel.  
Before running the Reveal Analyzer, use the Reveal Inserter to add Reveal modules to your design. In these modules, 
specify the signals to monitor, define the trigger conditions, and set other preferred options. The Reveal Analyzer 
supports multiple logic analyzer cores using hard/soft JTAG interface. You can have up to 15 modules, typically one for 
each clock region of interest. When the modules are set up, regenerate the bitstream data file to program the FPGA.  