MIPI CSI/DSI IP  
User Guide 
 
 
© 2026 Lattice Semiconductor Corp. All Lattice trademarks, registered trademarks, patents, and disclaimers are as listed at www.latticesemi.com/legal.  
All other brand or product names are trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective holders. The specifications and information herein are subject to change without notice. 
FPGA-IPUG-02321-1.2  96 
Appendix B. Raspberry Pi OS Setup 
Raspberry Pi 5 OS Software Setup 
This example design uses the Raspberry Pi OS (64-bit) OS. 
For more information on setting up the Raspberry Pi 5 OS, refer to the Raspberry Pi Imager software in the Raspberry Pi 
web page. 
Setting Up the MIPI CSI Display in the Raspberry Pi 5 OS 
For more information on desktop setup for the Raspberry Pi 5 OS, refer to the Getting Started documentation in the 
Raspberry Pi web page. 
To set up the MIPI CSI display in the Raspberry Pi 5 OS, follow these steps: 
1. Boot into the Raspberry Pi 5 OS and invoke the command terminal window. 
2. At the command terminal, type the following command: 
sudo nano /boot/firmware/config.txt 
3. In the config.txt file, locate the following setting and modify the value as follows: 
camera_auto_detect=0 
4. Add the following command right after the line in step 3: 
dtoverlay=imx219,cam0 
5. After completing the changes above, press Ctrl+O. 
6. Press Enter to save the changes. 
7. Press Ctrl+X to close the config.txt file. 
8. Reboot the Raspberry Pi 5 OS for the changes to take effect. 
Note: The IMX258 camera sensor is not officially supported in the Raspberry Pi 5 OS camera software. To enable the 
display preview feature, the IMX219 driver is selected in the Raspberry Pi 5 OS. During driver probing at the 
Raspberry Pi 5 OS boot up stage, the I2C subsystem in the FPGA returns with an ACK response containing the 
IMX219 chip ID to the Raspberry Pi 5 OS. 
The following figure shows the camera sensor detected in the Raspberry Pi 5 OS during boot up with the FPGA device 
programmed and connected to it. 
 
Figure B.1. Camera Sensor Detected in the Raspberry Pi 5 OS 
