TERM OLD DESCRIPTION NEW DESCRIPTION
Charging Session Part of a transaction during which
the EV is allowed to request energy
a Charging Session is started when first interaction with user or EV occurs. This
can be a card swipe, remote start of transaction, connection of cable and/or EV,
parking bay occupancy detector, etc.
Additions to the table of definitions in section:. 2.2 on page 7
TERM DESCRIPTION
Energy Offer Period Energy Offer Period starts when the EVSE is ready and willing to supply energy.
Energy Offer SuspendPeriod During a transaction, there may be periods the EnergyOffer to EV is suspended by the EVSE, for instance due to
Smart Charging or local balancing.
Changes throughout the entire specification, correcting incorrect term use.
PAGE PAR. OLD TEXT NEW TEXT
42 4.9 C6: Charging session is stopped by user or a Remote Stop
Transaction message and further user action is required
(e.g. remove cable, leave parking bay)
C6: Transaction is stopped by user or a Remote Stop
Transaction message and further user action is required
(e.g. remove cable, leave parking bay)
42 4.9 D6: Charging session is stopped and further user action is
required
D6: Transaction is stopped and further user action is
required
43 4.9 E6: Charging session is stopped and further user action is
required
E6: Transaction is stopped and further user action is
required
43 4.9 F2: User restart charging session (e.g. reconnects cable,
presents idTag again)
F2: User restart charging session (e.g. reconnects cable,
presents idTag again), thereby creating a new
Transaction
88 7.7 Preparing: When a Connector becomes no longer available
for a new user but no charging session is active. Typically
a Connector is occupied when a user presents a tag, inserts
a cable or a vehicle occupies the parking bay
Preparing: When a Connector becomes no longer available
for a new user but there is no ongoing Transaction (yet).
Typically a Connector is in preparing state when a user
presents a tag, inserts a cable or a vehicle occupies the
parking bay
88 7.7 Finishing: When a charging session has stopped at a
Connector, but the Connector is not yet available for a new
user, e.g. the cable has not been removed or the vehicle
has not left the parking bay
Finishing: When a Transaction has stopped at a Connector,
but the Connector is not yet available for a new user, e.g.
the cable has not been removed or the vehicle has not left
the parking bay.
91 7.9 such as the start of a session such as the start of a Transaction
40