1 Change and Revision History
1.1 Version 1.0, November 29, 2007
• Initial version
1.2 Version 1.1, June 5, 2008
• New feature: support of sleeping devices
1.3 Version 1.2, May 20, 2011
• New feature: support of message lengths greater than 255 bytes
• Format for the forwarder encapsulation changed to the format proposed by Nicholas O’Leary (nickoleary@uk.ibm.com)
• Return code value “0x03 Rejected, not supported” added
• Field “ReturnCode” added to the messages WILLTOPICRESP and WILLMSGRESP
2 Introduction
There is a recent increase of interest in Wireless Sensor Networks (WSNs), both from commercial and technical
point of view, due to their simplicity, low cost and easy deployment. Those networks can serve different purposes,
from measurement and detection, to automation and process control. A typical WSN consists of a large number
of battery-operated sensors and actuators (SAs), which are usually equipped with a limited amount of storage and
processing capabilities. It is important that those devices communicate wirelessly, since the number of SA-nodes
is typically very large, and the cost of deployment of a wired infrastructure is prohibitively expensive. Such a
network is by nature very dynamic: the wireless links may temporarily break at any time, and nodes may fail
and be replaced very often. In such situations the conventional approach of using addresses for communicating
with the individual nodes may become a nightmare. Applications residing on the ﬁxed network and requiring
interactions with the wireless SA devices would need to manage and maintain means to communicate with a large
number of nodes. In most cases they do not need to know the address or identity of the devices which deliver the
information, but are more interested in the content of the data. For example, an asset tracking application is more
interested in the current location of a certain asset than in the network address of the GPS receivers that deliver that
information. In addition, several applications may have interest in the same sensor data but for different purposes.
In this case the SA nodes would need to manage and maintain communication means with multiple applications
in parallel. This might exceed the limited capabilities of the simple and low-cost SA devices.
Another problem is the difference in the addressing schemes between the networks involved. For example,
how does an application residing on a TCP/IP-based network address a SA device running on a ZigBeeR©1-based
wireless network?
The problem described above may be overcome by using a data-centric communication approach, in which
information is delivered to the receivers not based on their network addresses but rather as a function of their con-
tents and interests. One well-known example of data-centric communication is the “Publish/Subscribe” (pub/sub)
messaging system which is already being widely used in enterprise networks, mainly due to their scalability and
support of dynamic network topology. Extending the enterprise pub/sub system into the WSNs also enables a
seamless integration of the WSNs into the enterprise network, thus making the ﬁeld data collected by the SAs
available to all applications as any other enterprise information and enabling the control of the SAs from any
1ZigBee is a trademark of ZigBee Alliance in the US, other countries or both. Other company, product or service names may be trademarks
or service marks of others.
c© Copyright IBM Corporation 1999, 2013. All rights reserved. 3