enterprise application. This can be for example achieved by using the MQTT protocol, which is an open and
lightweight publish/subscribe protocol designed speciﬁcally for machine-to-machine and mobile applications. It
is optimized for communications over networks where bandwidth is at a premium or where the network con-
nection could be intermittent. However MQTT requires an underlying network, such as TCP/IP, that provides
an ordered lossless connection capability and this is too complex for very simple, small footprint, and low-cost
devices such as wireless SAs.
The purpose of this document is to specify MQTT-SN, a pub/sub protocol for wireless sensor networks.
MQTT-SN can be considered as a version of MQTT which is adapted to the peculiarities of a wireless commu-
nication environment. Wireless radio links have in general a higher failure rates than wired ones due to their
susceptibility to fading and interference disturbances. They have also a lower transmission rate. For example,
WSNs based on the IEEE 802.15.4 standard provide a maximum bandwidth of 250 kbit/s in the 2.4 GHz band.
Moreover, to be resistant against transmission errors, their packets have a very short length. In the case of IEEE
802.15.4, the packet length at the physical layer is limited to 128 bytes. Half of these 128 bytes could be taken
away by the overhead information required by supporting functions such as MAC layer, networking, security, etc.
MQTT-SN is also optimized for implementation on low-cost, battery-operated devices with limited processing
and storage resources.
MQTT-SN was originally developed for running on top of the ZigBee R©1 APS layer. ZigBee R©1 is an open
industrial consortium with the aim of deﬁning an open and global communication standard for WSNs. To be
global ZigBee R©1 has selected the IEEE standard 802.15.4 as the protocol for the PHY and MAC layers, and
adds on top on this standard the required network, security and application layers, thus providing interoperability
between products of different vendors.
MQTT-SN is designed in such a way that it is agnostic of the underlying networking services. Any network
which provides a bi-directional data transfer service between any node and a particular one (a gateway) should
be able to support MQTT-SN. For example a simple datagram service which allows a source endpoint to send
a data message to a speciﬁc destination endpoint should be sufﬁcient. A broadcast data transfer service is only
required if the gateway discovery procedure is employed. To reduce the broadcast trafﬁc created by the discovery
procedure, it is desirable that MQTT-SN could indicate the required broadcast radius to the underlying layer.
3 MQTT-SN vs MQTT
MQTT-SN is designed to be as close as possible to MQTT, but is adapted to the peculiarities of a wireless com-
munication environment such as low bandwidth, high link failures, short message length, etc. It is also optimized
for the implementation on low-cost, battery-operated devices with limited processing and storage resources.
Compared to MQTT, MQTT-SN is characterized by the following differences:
1. The CONNECT message is split into three messages. The two additional ones are optional and used to
transfer the Will topic and the Will message to the server.
2. To cope with the short message length and the limited transmission bandwidth in wireless networks, the
topic name in the PUBLISH messages is replaced by a short, two-byte long “topic id”. A registration
procedure is deﬁned to allow clients to register their topic names with the server/gateway and obtain the
corresponding topic ids. It is also used in the opposite direction to inform the client about the topic name
and the corresponding topic id that will be included in a following PUBLISH message.
3. “Pre-deﬁned” topic ids and “short” topic names are introduced, for which no registration is required. Pre-
deﬁned topic ids are also a two-byte long replacement of the topic name, their mapping to the topic names
is however known in advance by both the client’s application and the gateway/server. Therefore both sides
can start using pre-deﬁned topic ids; there is no need for a registration as in the case of “normal” topic ids
mentioned above.
c© Copyright IBM Corporation 1999, 2013. All rights reserved. 4