4.1 Transparent Gateway
For each connected MQTT-SN client a transparent GW will setup and maintain a MQTT connection to the MQTT
server. This MQTT connection is reserved exclusively for the end-to-end and almost transparent message ex-
change between the client and the server. There will be as many MQTT connections between the GW and the
server as MQTT-SN clients connected to the GW. The transparent GW will perform a “syntax” translation be-
tween the two protocols. Since all message exchanges are end-to-end between the MQTT-SN client and the
MQTT server, all functions and features that are implemented by the server can be offered to the client.
Although the implementation of the transparent GW is simpler when compared to the one of an aggregating
GW, it requires the MQTT server to support a separate connection for each active client. Some MQTT server
implementations might impose a limitation on the number of concurrent connections that they support.
Figure 2: Transparent and Aggregating Gateways
4.2 Aggregating Gateway
Instead of having a MQTT connection for each connected client, an aggregating GW will have only one MQTT
connection to the server. All message exchanges between a MQTT-SN client and an aggregating GW end at the
GW. The GW then decides which information will be given further to the server. Although its implementation
is more complex than the one of a transparent GW, an aggregating GW may be helpful in case of WSNs with
very large number of SAs because it reduces the number of MQTT connections that the server has to support
concurrently.
5 Message Formats
5.1 General Message Format
Message Header Message Variable Part
(2 or 4 octets) (n octets)
Table 1: General Message Format
The general format of a MQTT-SN message is shown in Table 1. A MQTT-SN message consists of two parts:
a 2- or 4-octet long header and an optional variable part. While the header is always present and contains the same
ﬁelds, the presence and content of the variable part depend on the type of the considered message.
5.2 Message Header
The format of the message header is illustrated in Table 2.
c© Copyright IBM Corporation 1999, 2013. All rights reserved. 6