• Length and MsgType: see Section 5.2.
• ClientId: contains the client id; this ﬁeld is optional and is included by a “sleeping” client when it goes
to the “awake” state and is waiting for messages sent by the server/gateway, see Section 6.14 for further
details.
5.4.20 PINGRESP
Length MsgType
(octet 0) (1)
Table 23: PINGRESP Message
As with MQTT, a PINGRESP message is the response to a PINGREQ message and means ”yes I am alive”.
Keep Alive messages ﬂow in either direction, sent either by a connected client or the gateway. Its format is
illustrated in Table 23: it has only a header and no variable part.
Moreover, a PINGRESP message is sent by a gateway to inform a sleeping client that it has no more buffered
messages for that client, see Section 6.14 for further details.
5.4.21 DISCONNECT
Length MsgType Duration (optional)
(octet 0) (1) (2-3)
Table 24: DISCONNECT Message
The format of the DISCONNECT message is illustrated in Table 24:
• Length and MsgType: see Section 5.2.
• Duration: contains the value of the sleep timer; this ﬁeld is optional and is included by a “sleeping” client
that wants to go the “asleep” state, see Section 6.14 for further details.
As with MQTT, the DISCONNECT message is sent by a client to indicate that it wants to close the connection.
The gateway will acknowledge the receipt of that message by returning a DISCONNECT to the client. A server or
gateway may also sends a DISCONNECT to a client, e.g. in case a gateway, due to an error, cannot map a received
message to a client. Upon receiving such a DISCONNECT message, a client should try to setup the connection
again by sending a CONNECT message to the gateway or server. In all these cases the DISCONNECT message
does not contain the Duration ﬁeld.
A DISCONNECT message with a Duration ﬁeld is sent by a client when it wants to go to the “asleep” state.
The receipt of this message is also acknowledged by the gateway by means of a DISCONNECT message (without
a duration ﬁeld).
5.4.22 WILLTOPICUPD
Length MsgType Flags WillTopic
(octet 0) (1) (2) (3:n)
Table 25: WILLTOPICUPD Message
c© Copyright IBM Corporation 1999, 2013. All rights reserved. 17