6.1 Gateway Advertisement and Discovery
This procedure is new and does not exist in MQTT.
A gateway may announce its presence by broadcasting periodically an ADVERTISE message to all devices
that are currently parts of the network. A gateway should only advertise its presence if it is connected to a server
(or is itself a server).
Multiple gateways may be active at the same time in the same network. In this case they will have different
ids. It is up to the client to decide to which gateway it wants to connect. However at any point in time a client is
allowed to be connected to only one gateway.
A client should maintain a list of active gateways together with their network addresses. This list is populated
by means of the ADVERTISE and GWINFO messages received.
The time duration TADV until the gateway sends the next ADVERTISE message is indicated in the Duration
ﬁeld of the ADVERTISE messages. A client may use this information to monitor the availability of a gateway.
For example, if it does not receive ADVERTISE messages from a gateway for NADV consecutive times, it may
assume that the gateway is down and removes it from its list of active gateways. Similarly, gateways in stand-by
mode will become active (i.e. start sending ADVERTISE messages) if they miss successively a couple of times
advertisements from a certain gateway.
Since the ADVERTISE messages are broadcasted into the whole wireless network, the time interval TADV
between two ADVERTISE messages sent by a gateway should be large enough (e.g. greater than 15 min) to avoid
bandwidth congestion in the network.
The large value of TADV will lead to a long waiting time for new clients which are looking for a gateway.
To shorten this waiting time a client may broadcast a SEARCHGW message. To prevent broadcast storms when
multiple clients start searching for GW almost at the same time, the sending of the SEARCHGW message is
delayed by a random time between0 and TSEARCHGW . A client will cancel its transmission of the SEARCHGW
message if it receives during this delay time a SEARCHGW message sent by another client and identical to the
one it wants to send, and behaves as if the SEARCHGW message was sent by itself.
The broadcast radius Rb of the SEARCHGW message is limited, e.g. to a single hop in case of a dense
deployment of MQTT-SN clients.
Upon receiving a SEARCHGW message a gateway replies with a GWINFO message containing its id. Simi-
larly, a client answers with a GWINFO message if it has at least one active gateway in its list of active gateways.
If the client has multiple GWs in its list, it selects one GW out of its list and includes that information into the
GWINFO message.
Like the SEARCHGW message, the GWINFO message is broadcast with the same radius Rb, which is indi-
cated in the SEARCHGW message. The radius Rb is also given to the underlying layer when these two messages
are passed down for transmission.
To give priority to the gateways a client will delay its sending of the GWINFO message for a random time
TGW IN F O. If during this delay time the client receives a GWINFO message it will cancel the transmission of its
GWINFO message.
In case of no response the SEARCHGW message may be retransmitted. In this case the time intervals between
two consecutive SEARCHGW messages should be increased exponentially.
6.2 Client’s Connection Setup
As with MQTT, a MQTT-SN client needs to setup a connection to a GW before it can exchange information with
that GW. The procedure for setting up a connection with a GW is illustrated in Fig. 3, in which it is assumed that
the client requests the gateway to prompt for the transfer of Will topic and Will message. This request is indicated
by setting the Will ﬂag of the CONNECT message. The client then sends these two pieces of information to the
GW upon receiving the corresponding request messages WILLTOPICREQ and WILLMSGREQ. The procedure
is terminated with the CONNACK message sent by the GW.
If Will ﬂag is not set then the GW answers directly with a CONNACK message.
c© Copyright IBM Corporation 1999, 2013. All rights reserved. 20