Figure 3: Connect procedure
In case the GW could not accept the connection request (e.g. because of congestion or it does not support a
feature indicated in the CONNECT message), the GW returns a CONNACK message with the rejection reason.
6.3 Clean session
With MQTT, when a client disconnects, its subscriptions are not deleted. They are persistent and valid for new
connections, until either they are explicitly un-subscribed by the client, or the client establishes a new connection
with the “clean session” ﬂag set.
In MQTT-SN the meaning of a “clean session” is extended to the Will feature, i.e. not only the subscriptions
are persistent, but also the Will topic and the Will message. The two ﬂags “CleanSession” and “Will” in the
CONNECT have then the following meanings:
• CleanSession=true, Will=true: The GW will delete all subscriptions and Will data related to the client,
and starts prompting for new Will topic and Will message.
• CleanSession=true, Will=false: The GW will delete all subscriptions and Will data related to the client,
and returns CONNACK (no prompting for Will topic and Will message).
• CleanSession=false, Will=true: The GW keeps all stored client’s data, but prompts for new Will topic and
Will message. The newly received Will data will overwrite the stored Will data.
• CleanSession=false, Will=false: The GW keeps all stored client’s data and returns CONNACK (no prompt-
ing for Will topic and Will message).
Note that if a client wants to delete only its Will data at connection setup, it could send a CONNECT message
with “CleanSession=false” and “Will=true”, and sends an empty WILLTOPIC message to the GW when prompted
to do so. It could also send a CONNECT message with “CleanSession=false” and “Will=false”, and use the
procedure of Section 6.4 to delete or modify the Will data.
6.4 Procedure for updating the Will data
At any time during a connection a client could update its Will data stored in the gateway by sending a WILL-
TOPICUPD or a WILLMSGUPD message. The information contained in these two messages will overwrite the
corresponding ones stored in the gateway. Both messages are acknowledged by the gateway. Both messages can
be used independently from each other.
c© Copyright IBM Corporation 1999, 2013. All rights reserved. 21