Note that an empty WILLTOPICUPD message will delete both the Will topic and Will message stored at the
gateway.
6.5 Topic Name Registration Procedure
Because of the limited bandwidth and the small message payload in wireless sensor networks, data is not published
together with its topic name as in MQTT. A registration procedure is introduced which allows both a client and
a GW to inform its peer about the short topic id and its corresponding topic name before it can start sending
PUBLISH messages using the short topic id.
To register a topic name a client sends a REGISTER message to the GW. If the registration could be accepted,
the gateway assigns a topicId to the received topic name and returns it with a REGACK message to the client. If
the registration could not be accepted, a REGACK is also returned to the client with the failure reason encoded in
the ReturnCode ﬁeld.
After having received the REGACK message with ReturnCode=“accepted”, the client shall use the assigned
topicId to publish data of the corresponding topic name. If however the REGACK contains a rejection code, the
client may try to register later again. If the return code was “rejected: congestion” , the client should wait for a
time TW AIT before restarting the registration procedure.
At any point in time a client may have only one REGISTER message outstanding, i.e. it has to wait for a
REGACK message before it can register another topic name.
A GW sends a REGISTER message to a client if it wants to inform that client about the topic name and the
assigned topic id that it will use later on when sending PUBLISH messages of the corresponding topic name.
This happens for example when the client re-connects without having set the “CleanSession” ﬂag or the client has
subscribed to topic names that contain wildcard characters such as # or +.
6.6 Client’s Publish Procedure
After having registered successfully a topic name with the gateway, the client can start publishing data relating to
the registered topic name by sending PUBLISH messages to the gateway. The PUBLISH messages contain the
assigned topic id.
All three QoS levels and their corresponding message ﬂows are supported as deﬁned in MQTT. The only
difference is the use of topic ids instead of topic names in the PUBLISH messages.
Regardless of the requested QoS level the client may receive in response to its PUBLISH a PUBACK message
which contains either
• the ReturnCode= “Rejection: invalid topic Id” : in this case the client needs to register the topic name again
before it can publish data related to that topic name; or
• the ReturnCode= “Rejection: congestion” : in this the client shall stop publishing toward the gateway for
at least the time TW AIT .
At any point in time a client may have only one QoS level 1 or 2 PUBLISH message outstanding, i.e. it has to
wait for the termination of this PUBLISH message exchange before it could start a new level 1 or 2 transaction.
6.7 Pre-deﬁned topic ids and short topic names
As described in Section 6.5, a topic id is a two-byte long replacement of the string-based topic name. A client
needs to use the REGISTER procedure to inform the gateway about the topic name it wants to employ and gets
from the gateway the corresponding topic id. It then will use this topic id in the PUBLISH messages it sends
to the gateway. In the opposite direction, the PUBLISH messages also contain a 2-byte topic id (instead of the
string-based topic name). The client is informed about the relation between topic id and topic name by means of
either a former SUBSCRIBE procedure or a REGISTER procedure started by the gateway.
c© Copyright IBM Corporation 1999, 2013. All rights reserved. 22