A “pre-deﬁned” topic id is a topic id whose mapping to a topic name is known in advance by both the client’s
application and the gateway. This is indicated in theFlags ﬁeld of the message. When using pre-deﬁned topic ids,
both sides can start immediately with the sending of PUBLISH messages; there is no need for the REGISTER
procedure as in the case of ”normal” topic ids. When receiving a PUBLISH message with a pre-deﬁned topic id,
of which the mapping to a topic name is unknown, the receiver should return a PUBACK with the ReturnCode=
“Rejection: invalid topic Id” . Note that this error situation cannot be resolved by means of re-registering as in the
case of normal topic id.
A client is still required to subscribe to a pre-deﬁned topic id, if it wants to receive PUBLISH messages
relating to that topic id. To avoid confusion between a pre-deﬁned topic id and a two-byte short topic name, the
SUBSCRIBE message contains a ﬂag indicating whether it is subscribing for a short topic name or a pre-deﬁned
topic id.
A “short” topic name is a topic name that has a ﬁxed length of two octets. It could be carried together with the
data within a PUBLISH message, thus no REGISTER procedure is needed for a short topic name. Otherwise, all
rules that apply to normal topic names also apply to short topic names. Note however that it does not make sense
to do wildcarding in subscriptions to short topic names, because it is not possible to deﬁne a meaningful name
hierarchy with only two characters.
6.8 PUBLISH with QoS Level -1
This feature is deﬁned for very simple client implementations which do not support any other features except
this one. There is no connection setup nor tear down, no registration nor subscription. The client just sends its
PUBLISH messages to a GW (whose address is known a-priori by the client) and forgets them. It does not care
whether the GW address is correct, whether the GW is alive, or whether the messages arrive at the GW.
Only the following parameter values are allowed for a PUBLISH message with QoS level -1:
• QoS ﬂag: set to “0b11”;
• TopicIdType ﬂag: either “0b01” for pre-deﬁned topic id or “0b10” for short topic name;
• TopicId ﬁeld: value of the pre-deﬁned topic id or of the short topic name;
• Data ﬁeld: the data to be published.
6.9 Client’s Topic Subscribe/Un-subscribe Procedure
To subscribe to a topic name, a client sends a SUBSCRIBE message to the gateway with the topic name included
in that message. If the gateway is able accept the subscription, it assigns a topic id to the received topic name
and returns it within a SUBACK message to the client. If the subscription can not be accepted, then a SUBACK
message is also returned to the client with the rejection cause encoded in the ReturnCode ﬁeld. If the rejection
cause is “rejected: congestion” , the client should wait for the time TW AIT before resending the SUBSCRIBE
message to the gateway.
If the client subscribes to a topic name which contains a wildcard character, the returning SUBACK message
will contain the topic id value 0x0000. The GW will the use the registration procedure to inform the client about
the to-be-used topic id value when it has the ﬁrst PUBLISH message with a matching topic name to be sent to the
client, see also Section 6.10.
Similar to the client’s PUBLISH procedure, topic ids may also be pre-deﬁned for certain topic names. Short
topic names may be used as well. In those two cases the client still needs to subscribe to those pre-deﬁned topic
ids or short topic names.
To unsubscribe, a client sends an UNSUBSCRIBE message to the gateway, which will then be answered by
means of an UNSUBACK message.
As for the REGISTER procedure, a client may have only one SUBSCRIBE or one UNSUBCRIBE transaction
open at a time.
c© Copyright IBM Corporation 1999, 2013. All rights reserved. 23