6.10 Gateway’s Publish Procedure
Similar to the client’s PUBLISH procedure described in Section 6.6, the gateway sends PUBLISH messages with
the topic id value that was returned in the SUBACK message to the client.
Preceding the PUBLISH message the GW may send a REGISTER message to inform the client about the
topic name and its assigned topic id value. This will happen for example when the client re-connects without
clean session or has subscribed to topic names with wildcard characters. Upon receiving a REGISTER message
the client replies with a REGACK message. The GW will wait for the REGACK message before it sends the
PUBLISH message to the client.
The client could reject the REGISTER message with a REGACK message indicating the rejection reason; this
corresponds to an unsubscribe to the topic name indicated in the REGISTER message. Note that unsubcribe to
a topic name with wildcard characters can only be done with the unsubscribe procedure described in Section 6.9
and not with the rejection of a REGISTER message, since a REGISTER message never contains a topic name
with wildcard characters.
If the client receives a PUBLISH message with an unknown topic id value, it shall respond with a PUBACK
message with the ReturnCode=“Rejected: invalid Topic ID” . This will trigger the gateway to delete or correct
the wrong topic id assignment.
Note that in case either the topic name or the data is too long to ﬁt into a REGISTER or a PUBLISH message,
the gateway silently aborts the publish procedure, i.e. no warning is sent to the affected subscribers.
6.11 Keep Alive and PING Procedure
As with MQTT, the value of the Keep Alive timer is indicated in the CONNECT message. The client should
send a PINGREQ message within each Keep Alive time period, which the GW acknowledges with a PINGRESP
message.
Similarly, a client shall answer with a PINGRESP message when it receives a PINGREQ message from the
GW to which it is connected. Otherwise the received PINGREQ message is ignored.
Clients should use this procedure to supervise the liveliness of the gateway to which they are connected. If
a client does not receive a PINGRESP from the gateway even after multiple retransmissions of the PINGREQ
message, it should ﬁrst try to connect to another gateway before trying to re-connect to this gateway (see also
section 6.13). Note that because the clients’ keep alive timers are not synchronized with each other, in case of a
gateway failure there is practically no danger for a storm of CONNECT messages sent almost at the same time by
all affected clients towards a new gateway.
6.12 Client’s Disconnect Procedure
A client sends a DISCONNECT message to the GW to indicate that it is about to close its connection. After this
point, the client is then required to establish a new connection with the GW before it can exchange information
with that GW again. Similar to MQTT, sending the DISCONNECT message does not affect existing subscriptions
and Will data if the CleanSession ﬂag is set. They are persistent until they are either explicitly un-subscribed, or
deleted, or modiﬁed by the client, or if the client establishes a new connection with the CleanSession ﬂag set. The
gateway acknowledges the receipt of the DISCONNECT message by returning a DISCONNECT to the client.
A client may also receive an unsolicited DISCONNECT sent by the gateway. This may happen for example
when the gateway, due to an error, cannot identify the client to which a received message belongs. Upon receiving
such a DISCONNECT message a client should retry to setup the connection again by sending a CONNECT
message to the gateway.
c© Copyright IBM Corporation 1999, 2013. All rights reserved. 24