6.13 Client’s Retransmission Procedure
All messages that are “unicasted” to the GW (i.e. sent using the GW’s unicast address and not broadcasted)
and for which a GW’s reply is expected are supervised by a retry timer Tretry and a retry counter Nretry. The
retry timer Tretry is started by the client when the message is sent and stopped when the expected GW’s reply
is received. If Tretry times out and the expected GW’s reply is not received, the client retransmits the message.
After Nretry retransmissions, the client aborts the procedure and assumes that its MQTT-SN connection to the
gateway is disconnected. It should then try to connect to another gateway, and only if it fails to re-connect again
to the former gateway.
6.14 Support of sleeping clients
Sleeping clients are clients residing on (battery-operated) devices that want to save as much energy as possible.
These devices need to enter a sleep mode whenever they are not active, and will wake up whenever they have data
to send or to receive. The server/gateway needs to be aware of the sleeping state of these clients and will buffer
messages destined to them for later delivery when they wake up.
Figure 4: Client’s state transition diagram
As illustrated in Fig 4, from the perspective of the server/gateway, a client may be in one of the following
states: active, asleep, awake, disconnected, or lost. A client is in the active state when the server/gateway receives
a CONNECT message from that client, as described in section 6.2. This state is supervised by the server/gateway
with the “keep alive” timer as described in section 6.11. If the server/gateway does not receive any message from
the client for a period longer than the keep alive duration (indicated in the CONNECT message), the gateway will
consider that client as lost and activates for example the Will feature for that client.
A client goes to the disconnected state when the server/gateway receives a DISCONNECT without a duration
ﬁeld. This state is not time-supervised by the server/gateway.
If a client want to sleep, it sends a DISCONNECT message which contains a sleep duration. The server/gateway
acknowledges that message with a DISCONNECT message and considers the client for being in asleep state,
see also Fig. 5. The asleep state is supervised by the server/gateway with the indicated sleep duration. If the
server/gateway does not receive any message from the client for a period longer than the sleep duration, the
server/gateway will consider that client as lost and - as with the keep alive procedure - activates for example
c© Copyright IBM Corporation 1999, 2013. All rights reserved. 25