Encryption means that the OCPP messages are encrypted so no unauthorized third party can see the
messages exchanged.
Charge point authentication means that Central System can verify the identity of a charge point, so that
no unauthorized third party can pretend to be a charge point and send malicious messages to a central
system.
6.2.1. Encryption
The industry standard for encryption on the internet is Transport Layer Security (TLS) [RFC5246].
Therefore OCPP is also adopting protocol for encrypting the connection between Central System and
Charge Point. TLS with WebSocket is widely supported by libraries and for clients should be hardly
more difficult than using unencrypted WebSocket.
When using TLS, the central system MAY also provide a signed certificate that a charge point can use to
verify the central system’s identity.
As some Charge Point implementations are using embedded systems with limited computing
resources, we impose an additional restriction on the TLS configuration on the server side:
• The TLS certificate SHALL be an RSA certificate with a size no greater than 2048 bytes
6.2.2. Charge point authentication
For authentication, OCPP-J over TLS uses the HTTP Basic authentication scheme ( [RFC2617]). The
relatively simple HTTP Basic authentication can be used because the connection is already TLS-
encrypted, so there is no need to encrypt the credentials a second time.
When using HTTP Basic authentication, the client, i.e. the Charge Point, has to provide a username and
password with its request. The username is equal to the charge point identity, which is the identifying
string of the charge point as it uses it in the OCPP-J connection URL. The password is a 20-byte key that
is stored on the charge point.
Example
If we have a charge point with:
• charge point identity "AL1000"
• authorization key 0001020304050607FFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFF
the HTTP authorization header should be:
Authorization: Basic QUwxMDAwOgABAgMEBQYH////////////////
A note on encryption
The authentication mechanism via HTTP Basic Authentication is meant to be used on TLS-encrypted
16