possible to pretend to be an already-installed and operating charge point. This makes still makes a
number of conceivable attacks impossible:
• "reservation" of a charge point by spoofing messages marking it as occupied
• marking your just-started session on a public charge point as stopped so you won’t have to pay as
much
• sending many spoofed transactions and/or errors from already on-boarded charge points to
confuse a central system operator’s operations
• send spoofed transactions with another person’s token ID to the central system to incur financial
damage to the token ID’s owner
It is RECOMMENDED that the Central System operator makes setting the authorization key part of a
charge point onboarding procedure, using the new OCPP 1.6 Pending value of the registration status in
BootNotification.conf. A newly-connecting Charge Point will first get a Pending registration status on its
first BootNotification.conf. The Central System will then set the Charge Point’s unique authorization key
with a ChangeConfiguration.req. Only when this ChangeConfiguration.req has been responded to with a
ChangeConfiguration.conf with a status of Accepted, will the Central System respond to a boot
notification with an Accepted registration status.
It is RECOMMENDED that the Central System operator checks for anomalies in the newly-connecting
charge points. Thus he can try to detect if an attacker has managed to steal the master key or key
derivation algorithm, and a list of registered charge point identities. For example, if the rate at which
new charge points connect suddenly increases, this may indicate an attack.
Storing the credentials
It is important that the credentials are stored on the Charge Point in such a way that they are not easily
lost or reset. If the credentials are lost, erased or changed unilaterally, the Charge Point can no longer
connect to the Central System and requires on-site servicing to install new credentials.
On the Central System side, it is RECOMMENDED to store the authorization key hashed, with a unique
salt, using a cryptographic hash algorithm designed for secure storage of passwords. This makes sure
that if the database containing the charge points' authorization keys is leaked, the attackers still cannot
authenticate as the charge points to the Central System.
6.2.3. What it does and does not secure
The scope of these security measures is limited to authentication and encryption of the connection
between Charge Point and Central System. It does not address every current security issue in the EV
Charging IT landscape.
It does provide the following things:
• authentication of the Charge Point to the Central System (using HTTP Basic Authentication)
• encryption of the connection between Charge Point and Central System
19