Chapter 5. Connection
5.1. Data integrity
For data integrity we rely on the underlying TCP/IP transport layer mechanisms.
5.2. TLS fragment length
TLS involves sending "Records" between peers. Records can be of type “Handshake”, “Alert”, “ChangeCipherSpec”, “Heartbeat” or
“Application”. OCPP messages are sent in Application records. The payload contains a “fragment” of the application data. The
record layer fragments information blocks into TLSPlaintext records carrying data in chunks of 2^14 bytes (16kB) or less.
TLS peers need to maintain an input and an output buffer to store an entire fragment of 16 kB. For a low resource device it is a large
cost to allocate 32 kB for the TLS connection.
Figure 1. Peers allocating standard 16 kB TLS buffers
A TLS extension is defined in TLS Extensions RFC6066 Section 4, that allows the client to ask for a different maximum fragment
length than the default 16kB. A client can ask for a maximum fragment length of 0.5 kB, 1 kB, 2 kB or 4 kB. This TLS extension is,
however, not widely supported and native managed cloud TLS termination services typically don’t support this.
A resource-constrained Charging Station SHOULD try to negotiate a smaller TLS maximum fragment size, and if that is not
accepted by the peer, then Charging Station MAY unilaterally decide to allocate less memory to its TLS output buffer. A TLS
maximum fragment length of 2 kB is suggested based on data collection during certification tests, which shows that 99% of the
messages fit in a 2 kB buffer.
Figure 2. Charging Station allocating a 2 kB TLS output buffer
5.3. WebSocket Ping in relation to OCPP Heartbeat
The WebSocket specification defines Ping and Pong frames that are used to check if the remote endpoint is still responsive. In
practice this mechanism is also used to prevent the network operator from quietly closing the underlying network connection after
a certain period of inactivity. This websocket feature can be used as a substitute for most of the OCPP Heartbeat messages, but
cannot replace all of its functionality. A Heartbeat message checks connectivity end-to-end, whereas a Websocket ping/pong only
Edition 4, 2025-12-03
OCPP 2.0.1 Edition 4 - © Open Charge Alliance 2025 15/26 Part 4 - JSON over WebSockets implementation guide