© 2018 Active Research Limited
Page 2
Important Notices
The device to which this manual relates complies with the Electromagnetic Compatibility requirements according to 
EN60945. The unit should always be used in conjunction with appropriately approved, shielded cable and connectors 
as per NMEA 0400 to ensure compliance. A declaration of conformity is available for download at www.actisense.com.
If the device to which this manual relates is to be installed within five metres of a compass, please refer to the ‘Compass 
Safe Distance’ section in the ‘Technical Specifications’ table.
Trademarks and Registered Trademarks
Actisense® and the Actisense logo are registered trademarks of Active Research Limited (Ltd). All other trademarks are 
the property of their respective owners.
The NMEA® name and NMEA logo are copyright held by the NMEA. All uses in this manual are by permission and no 
claim on the right to the NMEA name or logo are made in this manual.
Fair Use Statement
The contents of this manual may not be transferred or copied without the express written permission of  
Active Research Ltd. Copyright © 2018 Active Research Ltd. All rights reserved.
Technical Accuracy
To the best of our knowledge the information contained in this document was correct at the time it was produced. Active 
Research Ltd cannot accept liability for any inaccuracies or omissions. 
 
The products described in this manual and the specifications thereof may be changed without prior notice. Active 
Research Ltd cannot accept any liability for differences between the product and this document. To check for updated 
information and specifications please check www.actisense.com. 
Active Research Ltd will not be liable for infringement of copyright, industrial property rights, or other rights of a third party 
caused by the use of information or drawings described in this manual.
Product Registration
Please register your product via the online form at actisense.com/product-registration/.
Your product package includes a unit serial number. The serial number is six digits long and can be found below the 
barcode on the label. Your registration will assist Actisense Support to link your product to your details, simplifying any 
future assistance you may require.
Product Guarantee
All Actisense products are provided with a 3 year guarantee as standard. To activate the 5-year guarantee offered 
with this product please complete product registration either online (See ‘Product Registration’ section above) or by 
completing and returning the warranty card supplied in the box with the product.
 
If you suspect that the unit is faulty please refer to the Troubleshooting Section of the User Manual before  
contacting support.
It is a requirement of the guarantee that all installations of electronic equipment follow the NMEA 0400 specification. Any 
connection to a battery or power supply must meet the mandatory essential safety requirements that may be imposed 
by local regulatory agencies.
Actisense products are intended for use in a marine environment, primarily for below deck use. If a product is to be used 
in a more severe environment, such use may be considered misuse under the Active Research Ltd guarantee. 
Product Disposal
Please dispose of this product in accordance with the WEEE Directive. The product should be taken to a registered 
establishment for the disposal of electronic equipment.