© 2018 Active Research Limited
Page 4
Installation Warnings
All warnings and notices must be followed to ensure the correct operation of the PRO-MUX-1. Incorrect 
installation may invalidate the guarantee.
It is highly recommended that all of the installation instructions are read before commencing the installation.
There are important warnings and notes throughout the manual that should be considered before the 
installation is attempted.
Warning 1: Accuracy 
The Actisense PRO-MUX-1 is designed to accurately transfer data from input to output. When the PRO-MUX-1 is in a 
Basic Mode no data integrity checking is performed, therefore any incomplete, inaccurate or corrupt data received on 
a PRO-MUX-1 input will be duplicated to the PRO-MUX-1 outputs. In contrast, PRO-MUX-1 Smart Modes do use the 
sentence checksum (if available) to remove incomplete and corrupted data, however, the accuracy of the data fields in 
a valid sentence still remains the responsibility of the NMEA Talker that generated the data.
Warning 2: Installation and Operation
This product must be installed and operated in accordance with the instructions provided. Failure to do so 
could result in personal injury, damage to your boat and/or poor product performance.
Warning 3: Installation Code of Practice
When wiring the power supply to the PRO-MUX-1 ensure the isolation switch is off. Wiring the PRO-MUX-1 
while the connection is live may damage the PRO-MUX-1 and is in breach of the guarantee. Any connection 
to a battery or power supply must meet the mandatory essential safety requirements that may be imposed 
by local regulatory agencies.
 
All wiring should be in accordance with the requirements of the NMEA 0400 installation specification.
Warning 4: Mounting Requirements
Select a flat location to mount the PRO-MUX-1. Mounting on a contoured surface may cause damage to the 
case. Do not mount the PRO-MUX-1 while the device is powered, or the cable harness is connected. 
Note that the connectors are pluggable for easy disconnection when mounting or removing the PRO-MUX-1.
Software Updates
The PRO-MUX-1 units have built-in firmware which is held in flash memory, allowing quick and easy 
upgrades using the latest Actisense Toolkit. It is highly recommended that the firmware is kept up to date in 
the PRO-MUX-1. 
 
The firmware version installed in the PRO-MUX-1 can be viewed on the web based Configuration Tool 
‘Home’ page, in the ‘Main Application’ section.  Details of the latest PRO-MUX-1 firmware version released 
can be viewed on the Actisense website.