© 2018 Active Research Limited
Page 12
Troubleshooting Guide
First level PRO-MUX-1 diagnostics / fault finding can be performed by observing the LED behavior.  
The normal behavior of the PRO-MUX-1 LEDs is described on the next page.  If the LEDs are not behaving 
as expected, this will indicate a fault in either the device connected to the PRO-MUX-1, the wiring/
connections, or the PRO-MUX-1 itself.  
Some common check to perform on all terminals of the PRO-BUF-1 if the correct LED behaviour is not 
displayed:
• Connectors are fully inserted
• All pins of the connector are in the correct location (not half in the neighboring connection)
• Wires are terminated firmly and correctly (check polarity)
LED Colour State Description User action
PWR Blue Pulsing Indicates presence of power None required
IN (INCLUDING 
‘SERIAL IN’)
Green Flashing Data available on input indicated by LED. No action required
- Off No data available on this input or autobaud 
detection in progress (up to 20 seconds)
Check if connected Talker is sending data.  If 
it is, review configuration.
OUT (INCLUDING 
‘SERIAL OUT’) Orange Flashing/ solid
Flashes at a rate determined by baud rate and 
data length.  If available bandwidth is nearly full, 
LED may appear solid instead of flashing
None required
STATUS
Red Flashing / solid Buffer Full – Overload condition, sentences are 
being dropped.
Use a web browser to review configuration 
and correct overload condition.
Yellow Flashing / solid
Warning, buffer is filling. Duplicate deletion 
is managing to maintain output capacity by 
deleting older copies of sentences
Review configuration to understand the 
required rates of sentences which is 
acceptable to any connected device
Green Flashing / solid Normal operation.  No data issues. No action required
- Off
No data passing through outputs. Either no 
input data, or if IN LED is active it means all 
data is blocked. 
Check if the connected Talker is sending 
data.  If it is, review configuration.
Ethernet 
Green Flashing Data activity on the Ethernet port No action required
Yellow
On Indicates line speed at 100Mbps
No action required
Off Indicates line speed at 10Mbps
- Off No data available Check that the Ethernet network is 
operational.
ALARM Red On Indicates alarm conditions have been met. Review status page in browser to understand 
alarm source.
MODE Green Pulsing / Flashing
Pulsing - User defined mode selected, 
Flashing - Pre-defined operating mode 
selected according to mode pins.  Number of 
flashes = operating mode number
No action required
PWR and STATUS 
(Combined)
Power = blue Status 
= red
Power = on (solid) 
Status = on (solid) 
Critical HW Error Both Power & Status LEDs 
are solid
Return to manufacturer if this persists after a 
power reset