The setting of the individual interrupt status bits is not dependent on the related interrupt enable controls. The 
interrupt enable controls whether an interrupt is generated based on the condition, but the enable does not 
prevent the interrupt status assertion.
7.5.10 Error Handling
In the DS90UB960-Q1, the FPD-Link III receiver transfers incoming video frames to internal video buffers for 
forwarding to the CSI-2 Transmit port s. When the DS90UB960-Q1 detects an error condition the standard 
operation would be to flag this error condition, and stop sending the CSI-2 frame to avoid sending corrupted 
data downstream. When the DS90UB960-Q1 recovers from an error condition, it will provide a Start of Frame 
and resume sending valid data. Consequently, when the downstream CSI-2 input receives a repeated Start 
of Frame condition, this will indicate that the data received in between the prior start of frame is suspect 
and the signal processor can then discard the suspected data. The settings in registers PORT_CONFIG2 
and PORT_PASS_CTL can be used to change how the DS90UB960-Q1 handles errors when passing video 
frames. The receive ports may be configured to qualify the incoming video and provide a status indication and 
prevent the forwarding of video frames until certain error-free conditions are met. The Pass indication may be 
used to prevent forwarding packets to the internal video buffers by setting the PASS_DISCARD_EN bit in the 
PORT_PASS_CTL register. When this bit is set, video input will be discarded until the Pass signal indicates valid 
receive data. The Receive port will indicate Pass status once specific conditions are met, including a number of 
valid frames received. Valid frames may include requiring no FPD-Link III Parity errors and consistent frame size, 
including video line length and/or number of video lines.
In addition, the Receive port may be programmed to cut off video frames containing errors and/or prevent 
forwarding of video until the Pass conditions are met. Register settings in PORT_CONFIG2 register can be used 
to cut off frames on different line/frame sizes or a CSI-2 parity error is detected. When the deserializer cuts off 
frames in cases of different line/frame sizes different line/frame sizes, the video frame will stop immediately with 
no frame end packet. Often the condition will not be cleared until the next valid frame is received.
The Rx Port PASS indication may be used to prevent forwarding packets to the internal video buffers by 
setting the PASS_DISCARD_EN bit in the PORT_PASS_CTL register. When this bit is set, video input will be 
discarded until the Pass signal indicates valid receive data. The incoming video frames may be cut off based 
on error conditions or change in video line size or number of lines. These functions are controlled by bits in 
the PORT_CONFIG2 register. When cutting off video frames, the video frame may be cut off after sending any 
number of video lines. A cut off frame will not send a Frame End packet to the CSI-2 Transmit port.
7.5.10.1 Receive Frame Threshold
The FPD-Link III Receiver may be programmed to require a specified number of valid video frames prior 
to indicating a Pass condition and forwarding video frames. The number of required valid video frames is 
programmable through the PASS_THRESH field in the PORT_PASS_CTL register. The threshold can be 
programmed from 0 to 3 video frames. If set to 0, Pass will typically be indicated as soon as the FPD-Link 
III Receiver reports Lock to the incoming signal. If set greater than 0, the Receiver will require that number of 
valid frames before indicating Pass. Determination of valid frames will be dependent on the control bits in the 
PORT_PASS_CTL register. In the case of a Parity Error, when PASS_PARITY_ERR is set to 1 forwarding will be 
enabled one frame early. To ensure at least one good frame occurs following a parity error the counter should be 
set to 2 or higher when PASS_PARITY_ERR = 1.
7.5.10.2 Port PASS Control
When the PASS_LINE_SIZE control is set in the PORT_PASS_CTL register, the Receiver will qualify received 
frames based on having a consistent video line size. For PASS_LINE_SIZE to be clear, the deserializer checks 
that the received line length remains consistent during the frame and between frames. For each video line, the 
length (in bytes) will be determined. If it varies then we will flag this condition. Each video line in the packet must 
be the same size, and the line size must be consistent across video frames. A change in video line size will 
restart the valid frame counter.
When the PASS_LINE_CNT control is set in the PORT_PASS_CTL register, the Receiver will qualify received 
frames based on having a consistent frame size in number of lines. A change in number of video lines will restart 
the valid frame counter.
www.ti.com
DS90UB960-Q1
SNLS589D – AUGUST 2016 – REVISED SEPTEMBER 2023
Copyright © 2023 Texas Instruments Incorporated Submit Document Feedback 67
Product Folder Links: DS90UB960-Q1