When the PASS_PARITY_ERR control is set in the PORT_PASS_CTL register, the Receiver will clear the Pass 
indication on receipt of a parity error on the FPD-Link III interface. The valid frame counter will also be cleared 
on the parity error event. When PASS_PARITY_ERR is set to 1, TI also recommends that the designer set the 
PASS_THRESHOLD to 2 or higher to ensure at least one good frame occurs following a parity error.
7.5.11 Timestamp – Video Skew Detection
The DS90UB960-Q1 implements logic to detect skew between video signaling from attached sensors. For 
each input port, the DS90UB960-Q1 provides the ability to capture a time-stamp for both a start-of-frame and 
start-of-line event. Comparison of timestamps can provide information on the relative skew between the ports. 
Start-of-frame timestamps are generated at the active edge of the Vertical Sync signal in Raw mode. Start-of-line 
timestamps are generated at the start of reception of the Nth line of video data after the Start of Frame for either 
mode of operation. The function does not use the Line Start (LS) packet or Horizontal Sync controls to determine 
the start of lines.
The skew detection can run in either a FrameSync mode or free-run mode.
Skew detection can be individually enabled for each RX port.
For start-of-line timestamps, a line number must be programmed. The same line number is used for all 4 
channels. Prior to reading timestamps, the TS_FREEZE bit for each port that will be read should be set. This 
will prevent overwrite of the timestamps by the detection circuit until all timestamps have been read. The freeze 
condition will be released automatically once all frozen timestamps have been read. The freeze bits can also be 
cleared if it does not read all the timestamp values.
The TS_STATUS register includes the following:
• Flags to indicate multiple start-of-frame per FrameSync period
• Flag to indicate Timestamps Ready
• Flags to indicate Timestamps valid (per port) – if ports are not synchronized, all ports may not indicate valid 
timestamps
The Timestamp Ready flag will be cleared when the TS_FREEZE bit is cleared.
7.5.12 Pattern Generation
The deserializer supports internal pattern generation feature to provide a simple way to generate video test 
patterns for the CSI-2 transmitter output s. CSI-2 port 0 and port 1 each have their  own pattern generator. Two 
types of patterns are supported: Reference Color Bar pattern and Fixed Color patterns and accessed by the 
Pattern Generator page 0 in the indirect register set.
Prior to enabling the Packet Generator, the following should be done:
1. Set the TX_WRITE_PORT bit in CSI_PORT_SEL (reg 0x32).
2. Disable video forwarding by configuring bits [7:4] of the FWD_CTL1 register.
3. Configure CSI-2 Transmitter operating speed using the CSI_PLL_CTL register.
4. Enable the CSI-2 Transmitter using the CSI_CTL register.
7.5.12.1 Reference Color Bar Pattern
The Reference Color Bar Patterns are based on the pattern defined in Appendix D of the mipi_CTS_for_D-
PHY_v1-1_r03 specification. The pattern is an eight color bar pattern designed to provide high, low, and medium 
frequency outputs on the CSI-2 transmit data lanes.
The CSI-2 Reference pattern provides eight color bars by default with the following byte data for the color bars: 
X bytes of 0xAA (high-frequency pattern, inverted) X bytes of 0x33 (mid-frequency pattern) X bytes of 0xF0 
(low-frequency pattern, inverted) X bytes of 0x7F (lone 0 pattern) X bytes of 0x55 (high-frequency pattern) X 
bytes of 0xCC (mid-frequency pattern, inverted) X bytes of 0x0F (low-frequency pattern) Y bytes of 0x80 (lone 1 
pattern) In most cases, Y will be the same as X. For certain data types, the last color bar may need to be larger 
than the others to properly fill the video line dimensions.
The Pattern Generator is programmable with the following options:
• Number of color bars (1, 2, 4, or 8)
DS90UB960-Q1
SNLS589D – AUGUST 2016 – REVISED SEPTEMBER 2023
 www.ti.com
68 Submit Document Feedback Copyright © 2023 Texas Instruments Incorporated
Product Folder Links: DS90UB960-Q1