• Number of bytes per line
• Number of bytes per color bar
• CSI-2 DataType field and VC-ID
• Number of active video lines per frame
• Number of total lines per frame (active plus blanking)
• Line period (possibly program in units of 10 ns)
• Vertical front porch – number of blank lines prior to FrameEnd packet
• Vertical back porch – number of blank lines following FrameStart packet
The pattern generator relies on proper programming by software to ensure the color bar widths are set to 
multiples of the block (or word) size required for the specified DataType. For example, for RGB888, the block 
size is 3 bytes which also matches the pixel size. In this case, the number of bytes per color bar must be a 
multiple of 3. The Pattern Generator is implemented in the CSI-2 Transmit clock domain, providing the pattern 
directly to the CSI-2 Transmitter. The circuit generates the CSI-2 formatted data.
7.5.12.2 Fixed Color Patterns
When programmed for Fixed Color Pattern mode, Pattern Generator can generate a video image with a 
programmable fixed data pattern. The basic programming fields for image dimensions are the same as used 
with the Color Bar Patterns. When sending Fixed Color Patterns, the color bar controls allow alternating between 
the fixed pattern data and the bit-wise inverse of the fixed pattern data.
The Fixed Color patterns assume a fixed block size for the byte pattern to be sent. The block size is 
programmable through the register and is designed to support most 8-bit, 10-bit, and 12-bit pixel formats. The 
block size should be set based on the pixel size converted to blocks that are an integer multiple of bytes. For 
example, an RGB888 pattern would consist of 3-byte pixels and therefore require a 3-byte block size. A 2x12-bit 
pixel image would also require 3-byte block size, while a 3x12-bit pixel image would require nine bytes (two 
pixels) to send an integer number of bytes. Sending a RAW10 pattern typically requires a 5-byte block size for 
four pixels, so 1x10-bit and 2x10-bit could both be sent with a 5-byte block size. For 3x10-bit, a 15-byte block 
size would be required.
The Fixed Color patterns support block sizes up to 16 bytes in length, allowing additional options for patterns 
in some conditions. For example, an RGB888 image could alternate between four different pixels by using a 
12-byte block size. An alternating black and white RGB888 image could be sent with a block size of 6-bytes and 
setting first three bytes to 0xFF and next three bytes to 0x00.
To support up to 16-byte block sizes, a set of sixteen registers are implemented to allow programming the value 
for each data byte. The line period is calculated in units of 10 ns, unless the CSI-2 mode is set to 400-Mbps 
operation in which case the unit time dependancy is 20 ns.
7.5.12.3 Pattern Generator Programming
The information in this section provides details on how to program the Pattern Generator to provide a specific 
color bar pattern, based on data type, frame size, and line size.
Most basic configuration information is determined directly from the expected video frame parameters. The 
requirements should include the data type, frame rate (frames per second), number of active lines per frame, 
number of total lines per frame (active plus blanking), and number of pixels per line.
• PGEN_ACT_LPF – Number of active lines per frame
• PGEN_TOT_LPF – Number of total lines per frame
• PGEN_LSIZE – Video line length size in bytes. Compute based on pixels per line multiplied by pixel size in 
bytes
• CSI-2 DataType field and VC-ID
• Optional: PGEN_VBP – Vertical back porch. This is the number of lines of vertical blanking following Frame 
Valid
• Optional: PGEN_VFP – Vertical front porch. This is the number of lines of vertical blanking preceding Frame 
Valid
• PGEN_LINE_PD – Line period in 10-ns units. Compute based on Frame Rate and total lines per frame
www.ti.com
DS90UB960-Q1
SNLS589D – AUGUST 2016 – REVISED SEPTEMBER 2023
Copyright © 2023 Texas Instruments Incorporated Submit Document Feedback 69
Product Folder Links: DS90UB960-Q1