8 Application and Implementation
Note
Information in the following applications sections is not part of the TI component specification, 
and TI does not warrant its accuracy or completeness. TI’s customers are responsible for 
determining suitability of components for their purposes, as well as validating and testing their design 
implementation to confirm system functionality.
8.1 Application Information
The DS90UB960-Q1 is a highly integrated sensor hub deserializer which includes four FPD-Link III inputs 
targeted at ADAS applications, such as front/rear/surround-view camera sensors, driver monitoring systems, and 
sensor fusion.
8.1.1 Power Over Coax
The DS90UB960-Q1 is designed to support the Power-over-Coax (PoC) method of powering remote sensor 
systems. With this method, the power is delivered over the same medium (a coaxial cable) used for high-
speed digital video data and bidirectional control and diagnostics data transmission. The method uses passive 
networks or filters that isolate the transmission line from the loading of the DC-DC regulator circuits and their 
connecting power traces on both sides of the link as shown in Figure 8-1.
Power
Source
Braided
Shield
Coaxial CablePoC PoC
FPD-Link III
POWER
RTERM
CAC1
DC-DC 
Regulators
CAC2
CAC1
CAC2
RTERM
Sensor Module
Image Sensor
Automotive ECU
FPD-Link III
Deserializer
FPD-Link III
Serializer
Processor
SoC
Figure 8-1. Power-over-Coax (PoC) System Diagram
The PoC networks' impedance of ≥ 1 k Ω over a specific frequency band is recommended to isolate the 
transmission line from the loading of the regulator circuits provided good layout practices are followed and 
the PCB return loss requirements given in Table 8-3 are met. Higher PoC network impedance will contribute 
to favorable insertion loss and return loss characteristics in the high-speed channel. The lower limit of the 
frequency band is defined as ½ of the frequency of the back channel, f BC. The upper limit of the frequency band 
is the frequency of the forward high-speed channel, f FC. However, the main criteria that need to be met in the 
total high-speed channel, which consists of a serializer PCB, a deserializer PCB, and a cable, are the insertion 
loss and return loss limits defined in the Total Channel Requirements (see Section 7.4.7.2), while the system is 
under maximum current load and extreme temperature conditions.
Figure 8-2 shows a PoC network recommended for a "4G" FPD-Link III consisting of DS90UB953-Q1 and pair 
with the bidirectional channel operating at 50 Mbps (½ f BC = 25 MHz) and the forward channel operating at 4.16 
Gbps (fFC ≈ 2.1 GHz). Other PoC networks are possible and may be different on the serializer and deserializer 
boards as long as the PCB board return loss requirements given in Table 8-3 are met.
www.ti.com
DS90UB960-Q1
SNLS589D – AUGUST 2016 – REVISED SEPTEMBER 2023
Copyright © 2023 Texas Instruments Incorporated Submit Document Feedback 163
Product Folder Links: DS90UB960-Q1