LOCK
RIN
I2C 
Local
Sensor 
Config
I2C 
Remote
960 
Config
External CLK Reference to SER
CSI TX 
CLK
1. CSI Tx Enable
2. RX Port Forward  
GPIO
t3
VDDx
PDB
MODE 
IDX Valid
t1
960 Lock Time
Copyright © 2018, Texas Instruments Incorporated
REFCLK
t2
Figure 8-20. Power-Up Sequencing With Non-synchronous Clocking Mode
8.5 Layout
8.5.1 Layout Guidelines
Circuit board layout and stack-up for the FPD-Link III devices must be designed to provide low-noise power 
feed to the device. Good layout practice also separates high frequency or high-level inputs and outputs to 
minimize unwanted stray noise pick-up, feedback, and interference. Power system performance may be greatly 
improved by using thin dielectrics (2 to 4 mils) for power/ground sandwiches. This arrangement provides plane 
capacitance for the PCB power system with low-inductance parasitics, which has proven especially effective 
at high frequencies, and makes the value and placement of external bypass capacitors less critical. External 
bypass capacitors should include both RF ceramic and tantalum electrolytic types. RF capacitors may use 
values in the range of 0.01 µF to 0.1 µF. Ceramic capacitors may be in the 2.2-µF to 10-µF range. The voltage 
rating of the ceramic capacitors must be at least 5× the power supply voltage being used
TI recommends surface-mount capacitors due to their smaller parasitics. When using multiple capacitors per 
supply pin, place the smaller value closer to the pin. A large bulk capacitor is recommend at the point of 
power entry. This is typically in the 50-µF to 100-µF range, which smooths low frequency switching noise. TI 
recommends connecting power and ground pins directly to the power and ground planes with bypass capacitors 
connected to the plane with via on both ends of the capacitor. Connecting power or ground pins to an external 
bypass capacitor increases the inductance of the path.
A small body size X7R chip capacitor, such as 0603 or 0402, is recommended for external bypass. The small 
body size reduces the parasitic inductance of the capacitor. The user must pay attention to the resonance 
frequency of these external bypass capacitors, usually in the range of 20 to 30 MHz. To provide effective 
bypassing, multiple capacitors are often used to achieve low impedance between the supply rails over the 
frequency of interest. At high frequency, it is also common practice to use two vias from power and ground pins 
to the planes to reduce the impedance at high frequency.
DS90UB960-Q1
SNLS589D – AUGUST 2016 – REVISED SEPTEMBER 2023
 www.ti.com
176 Submit Document Feedback Copyright © 2023 Texas Instruments Incorporated
Product Folder Links: DS90UB960-Q1