Some devices provide separate power and ground pins for different portions of the circuit. This is done to isolate 
switching noise effects between different sections of the circuit. Separate planes on the PCB are typically not 
required. Pin Description tables typically provide guidance on which circuit blocks are connected to which power 
pin pairs. In some cases, an external filter may be used to provide clean power to sensitive circuits such as 
PLLs.
Use at least a four-layer board with a power and ground plane. Locate LVCMOS signals away from the 
differential lines to prevent coupling from the LVCMOS lines to the differential lines. Differential impedance 
of 100 Ω are typically recommended for STP interconnect and single-ended impedance of 50 Ω for coaxial 
interconnect. The closely coupled lines help to ensure that coupled noise appears as common-mode and thus is 
rejected by the receivers. The tightly coupled lines also radiate less.
8.5.1.1 Ground
TI recommends that a consistent ground plane reference for the high-speed signals in the PCB design to 
provide the best image plane for signal traces running parallel to the plane. Connect the thermal pad of the 
DS90UB960-Q1 to this plane with vias.
8.5.1.2 Routing FPD-Link III Signal Traces and PoC Filter
Routing the FPD-Link III signal traces between the R IN pins and the connector as well as connecting the PoC 
filter to these traces are the most critical pieces of a successful DS90UB960-Q1 PCB layout. Figure 8-21 shows 
an example PCB layout of the DS90UB960-Q1 configured for interface to remote sensor modules over coaxial 
cables. The layout example also uses a footprint of an edge-mount Quad Mini-FAKRA connector provided by 
Rosenberger. For additional PCB layout details of the example, refer to the DS90UB960-Q1EVM User's Guide 
(SNLU226).
The following list provides essential recommendations for routing the FPD-Link III signal traces between the 
DS90UB960-Q1 receiver input pins (RIN) and the FAKRA connector, and connecting the PoC filter.
• The routing of the FPD-Link III traces may be all on the top layer (as shown in the example) or partially 
embedded in middle layers if EMI is a concern.
• The AC-coupling capacitors should be on the top layer and very close to the DS90UB960-Q1 receiver input 
pins to minimize the length of coupled differential trace pair between the pins and the capacitors.
• Route the RIN+ trace between the AC-coupling capacitor and the FAKRA connector as a 50-Ω single-ended 
micro-strip with tight impedance control (±10%). Calculate the proper width of the trace for a 50-Ω impedance 
based on the PCB stack-up. Ensure that the trace can carry the PoC current for the maximum load presented 
by the remote sensor module.
• The PoC filter should be connected to the RIN+ trace through the first ferrite bead (FB1). The FB1 should be 
touching the high-speed trace to minimize the stub length seen by the transmission line. Create an anti-pad 
or a moat under the FB1 pad that touches the trace. The anti-pad should be a plane cutout of the ground 
plane directly underneath the top layer without cutting out the ground reference under the trace. The purpose 
of the anti-pad is to maintain the impedance as close to 50 Ω as possible.
• Route the RIN– trace with minimum coupling to the RIN+ trace (S > 3W).
• Consult with connector manufacturer for optimized connector footprint. If the connector is mounted on the 
same side as the IC, minimize the impact of the thru-hole connector stubs by routing the high-speed signal 
traces on the opposite side of the connector mounting side.
When configured for STP and routing differential signals to the DS90UB960-Q1 receiver inputs, the traces 
should maintain a 100-Ω differential impedance routed to the connector. When choosing to implement a common 
mode choke for common mode noise reduction, take care to minimize the effect of any mismatch.
www.ti.com
DS90UB960-Q1
SNLS589D – AUGUST 2016 – REVISED SEPTEMBER 2023
Copyright © 2023 Texas Instruments Incorporated Submit Document Feedback 177
Product Folder Links: DS90UB960-Q1