8.5.1.3 CSI-2 Guidelines
1. Route CSI0_D*P/N and CSI1_D*P/N pairs with controlled 100-Ω differential impedance (±20%) or 50-Ω 
single-ended impedance (±15%).
2. Keep away from other high-speed signals.
3. Minimize intra-pair and inter-pair length mismatch within a single CSI-2 TX Port (recommended <= 5 mils).
4. Length matching should be near the location of mismatch.
5. Each pair should be separated at least by 3 times the signal trace width.
6. Keep the use of bends in differential traces to a minimum. When bends are used, the number of left and right 
bends must be as equal as possible, and the angle of the bend should be ≥ 135 degrees. This arrangement 
minimizes any length mismatch caused by the bends and therefore minimizes the impact that bends have on 
EMI.
7. Route all differential pairs on the same layer.
8. Keep the number of VIAS to a minimum — TI recommends keeping the VIA count to 2 or fewer.
9. Keep traces on layers adjacent to ground plane.
10. Do NOT route differential pairs over any plane split.
11. Adding Test points causes impedance discontinuity and therefore negatively impacts signal performance. If 
test points are used, place them in series and symmetrically. Test points must not be placed in a manner that 
causes a stub on the differential pair.
8.5.2 Layout Example
Stencil parameters such as aperture area ratio and the fabrication process have a significant impact on paste 
deposition. Inspection of the stencil prior to placement of the VQFN package is highly recommended to improve 
board assembly yields. If the via and aperture openings are not carefully monitored, the solder may flow 
unevenly through the DAP.
Example PCB layout is used to demonstrate both proper routing and proper solder techniques when designing in 
the Deserializer.
Figure 8-21  shows a PCB layout example are derived from the layout design of the DS90UB960-Q1EVM 
Evaluation Board. The graphic and layout description are used to determine proper routing when designing 
the board. The high-speed FPD-Link III traces routed differentially up to the connector. A 100- Ω differential 
characteristic impedance and 50- Ω single-ended characteristic impedance traces are maintained as much as 
possible for both STP and coaxial applications. For the layout of a coaxial interconnects, coupled traces should 
be used with the RINx- termination near to the connector.
DS90UB960-Q1
SNLS589D – AUGUST 2016 – REVISED SEPTEMBER 2023
 www.ti.com
178 Submit Document Feedback Copyright © 2023 Texas Instruments Incorporated
Product Folder Links: DS90UB960-Q1