9 Device and Documentation Support
9.1 Documentation Support
9.1.1 Related Documentation
For related documentation see the following:
• Sending Power over Coax in DS90UB913A Designs (SNLA224)
• I2C Over DS90UB913/4 FPD-Link III With Bidirectional Control Channel (SNLA222)
• DS90UB960-Q1EVM User's Guide (SNLU226)
• I2C Communication Over FPD-Link III With Bidirectional Control Channel (SNLA131)
• I2C Bus Pullup Resistor Calculation (SLVA689)
• FPD-Link University Training Material
• An EMC/EMI System-Design and Testing Methodology for FPD-Link III SerDes (SLYT719)
• Ten Tips for Successfully Designing With Automotive EMC/EMI Requirements (SLYT636)
9.2 Receiving Notification of Documentation Updates
To receive notification of documentation updates, navigate to the device product folder on ti.com. In the upper 
right corner, click on Alert me  to register and receive a weekly digest of any product information that has 
changed. For change details, review the revision history included in any revised document.
9.3 Support Resources
TI E2E ™ support forums  are an engineer's go-to source for fast, verified answers and design help — straight 
from the experts. Search existing answers or ask your own question to get the quick design help you need.
Linked content is provided "AS IS" by the respective contributors. They do not constitute TI specifications and do 
not necessarily reflect TI's views; see TI's Terms of Use.
9.4 Trademarks
TI E2E™ is a trademark of Texas Instruments.
All trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
9.5 Electrostatic Discharge Caution
This integrated circuit can be damaged by ESD. Texas Instruments recommends that all integrated circuits be handled 
with appropriate precautions. Failure to observe proper handling and installation procedures can cause damage.
ESD damage can range from subtle performance degradation to complete device failure. Precision integrated circuits may 
be more susceptible to damage because very small parametric changes could cause the device not to meet its published 
specifications.
9.6 Glossary
TI Glossary This glossary lists and explains terms, acronyms, and definitions.
10 Mechanical, Packaging, and Orderable Information
The following pages include mechanical, packaging, and orderable information. This information is the most 
current data available for the designated devices. This data is subject to change without notice and revision of 
this document. For browser-based versions of this data sheet, refer to the left-hand navigation.
DS90UB960-Q1
SNLS589D – AUGUST 2016 – REVISED SEPTEMBER 2023
 www.ti.com
182 Submit Document Feedback Copyright © 2023 Texas Instruments Incorporated
Product Folder Links: DS90UB960-Q1