2. Terminology and Conventions
2.1. Conventions
The key words “MUST”, “MUST NOT”, “REQUIRED”, “SHALL”, “SHALL NOT”, “SHOULD”, “SHOULD NOT”,
“RECOMMENDED”, “MAY”, and “OPTIONAL” in this document are to be interpreted as described in [RFC2119],
subject to the following additional clarification clause:
The phrase “valid reasons in particular circumstances” relating to the usage of the terms “SHOULD”, “SHOULD
NOT”, “RECOMMENDED”, and “NOT RECOMMENDED” is to be taken to mean technically valid reasons, such as
the absence of necessary hardware to support a function from a charge point design: for the purposes of this
specification it specifically excludes decisions made on commercial, or other non-technical grounds, such as cost
of implementation, or likelihood of use.
All sections and appendixes, except “Scope” and “Terminology and Conventions”, are normative, unless they are
explicitly indicated to be informative.
2.2. Definitions
This section contains the terminology that is used throughout this document.
Central System Charge Point Management System: the central system that manages Charge Points and has the information
for authorizing users for using its Charge Points.
CiString Case Insensitive String. Only printable ASCII allowed.
Charge Point The Charge Point is the physical system where an electric vehicle can be charged. A Charge Point has one or
more connectors.
Charging Profile Generic Charging Profile, used for different types of Profiles. Contains information about the Profile and holds
the Charging Schedule. In future versions of OCPP it might hold more than 1 Charging Schedule.
Charging Schedule Part of a Charging Profile. Defines a block of charging Power or Current limits. Can contain a start time and
length.
Charging Session A Charging Session is started when first interaction with user or EV occurs. This can be a card swipe, remote
start of transaction, connection of cable and/or EV, parking bay occupancy detector, etc.
Composite Charging Schedule The charging schedule as calculated by the Charge Point. It is the result of the calculation of all active
schedules and possible local limits present in the Charge Point. Local Limits might be taken into account.
Connector The term “Connector”, as used in this specification, refers to an independently operated and managed
electrical outlet on a Charge Point. This usually corresponds to a single physical connector, but in some cases
a single outlet may have multiple physical socket types and/or tethered cable/connector arrangements to
facilitate different vehicle types (e.g. four-wheeled EVs and electric scooters).
Control Pilot signal Signal used by a Charge Point to inform EV of maximum Charging power or current limit, as defined by
[IEC61851-1].
Energy Offer Period Energy Offer Period starts when the EVSE is ready and willing to supply energy.
Energy Offer SuspendPeriod During a transaction, there may be periods the EnergyOffer to EV is suspended by the EVSE, for instance due
to Smart Charging or local balancing.
5