3. Introduction
This is the specification for OCPP version 1.6.
OCPP is a standard open protocol for communication between Charge Points and a Central System and is
designed to accommodate any type of charging technique.
OCPP 1.6 introduces new features to accommodate the market: Smart Charging, OCPP using JSON over
Websockets, better diagnostics possibilities (Reason), more Charge Point Statuses and TriggerMessage. OCPP 1.6
is based on OCPP 1.5, with some new features and a lot of textual improvements, clarifications and fixes for all
known ambiguities. Due to improvements and new features, OCPP 1.6 is not backward compatible with OCPP
1.5.
For a full list of changes, see: New in OCPP 1.6.
Some basic concepts are explained in the sections below in this introductory chapter. The chapters: Operations
Initiated by Charge Point and Operations Initiated by Central System describe the operations supported by the
protocol. The exact messages and their parameters are detailed in the chapter: Messages and data types are
described in chapter: Types. Defined configuration keys are described in the chapter: Standard Configuration
Key Names & Values.
3.1. Edition 2
This document is OCPP 1.6 edition 2. This document still describes the same protocol: OCPP 1.6, only the
documentation is improved. On message level there are no changes compared to the original release of OCPP
1.6 of October 2015. All known errata (previously published in a separate document) have been merged into this
document, making it easier for the implementers to work with the specification. When there is doubt about the
way OCPP 1.6 should be implemented, this document over rules the original document.
3.2. Document structure
With the introduction of OCPP 1.6, there are two different flavours of OCPP; next to the SOAP based
implementations, there is the possibility to use the much more compact JSON alternative. To avoid confusion in
communication on the type of implementation we recommend using the distinct suffixes -J and -S to indicate
JSON or SOAP . In generic terms this would be OCPP-J for JSON and OCPP-S for SOAP .
To support the different flavours, the OCPP standard is divided in multiple documents. The base document (the
one you are reading now) contains the technical protocol specification. The technical protocol specification must
be used with one of the transport protocol specifications. the OCPP SOAP Specification contains the
implementation specification needed to make a OCPP-S implementation. For OCPP-J, the OCPP JSON
Specification must be used.
For improved interoperabillity between the Central Systems and Charge Points, it is adviced to meet the
requirements stated in the OCPP 1.6 Compliance testing documentation.
3.3. Feature Profiles
This section is normative.
8