SHALL wait for 60 seconds, and resend the message. In the case when there is a second failure, the Charge Point
SHALL wait for 120 seconds, before resending the message. If this final attempt fails, the Charge Point SHOULD
discard the message and continue with the next transaction-related message, if there is any.
3.8. Connector numbering
This section is normative.
To enable Central System to be able to address all the connectors of a Charge Point, ConnectorIds MUST always
be numbered in the same way.
Connectors numbering (ConnectorIds) MUST be as follows:
• ID of the first connector MUST be 1
• Additional connectors MUST be sequentially numbered (no numbers may be skipped)
• ConnectorIds MUST never be higher than the total number of connectors of a Charge Point
• For operations intiated by the Central System, ConnectorId 0 is reserved for addressing the entire Charge
Point.
• For operations initiated by the Charge Point (when reporting), ConnectorId 0 is reserved for the Charge
Point main controller.
Example: A Charge Point with 3 connectors: All connectors MUST be numbered with the IDs: 1, 2 and 3. It is
advisable to number the connectors of a Charge Point in a logical way: from left to right, top to bottom
incrementing.
3.9. ID Tokens
This section is normative.
In most cases, IdToken data acquired via local token reader hardware is usually a (4 or 7 byte) UID value of a
physical RFID card, typically represented as 8/14 hexadecimal digit characters.
However, IdTokens sent to Charge Points by Central Systems for remotely initiated charging sessions may
commonly be (single use) virtual transaction authorization codes, or virtual RFID tokens that deliberately use a
non-standard UID format to avoid possible conflict with real UID values.
Also, IdToken data used as ParentIds may often use a shared central account identifier for the ParentId, instead
of a UID of the first/master RFID card of an account.
Therefore, message data elements of the IdToken class (including ParentId) MAY contain any data, subject to the
constraints of the data-type (CiString20Type), that is meaningful to a Central System (e.g. for the purpose of
identifying the initiator of charging activity), and Charge Points MUST NOT make any presumptions as to the
format or content of such data (e.g. by assuming that it is a UID-like value that must be hex characters only
and/or an even number of digits).
18