
The amount of phases used during charging is limited by the capabilities of: The Charge Point,
EV and Cable between CP and EV. If any of these 3 is not capable of 3 phase charging, the EV
will be charged using 1 phase only.

Switching the number of used phases during a schedule or charging session should be done
with care. Some EVs may not support this and changing the amount of phases may result in
physical damage. With the configuration key: ConnectorSwitch3to1PhaseSupported The
Charge Point can tell if it supports switching the amount of phases during a transaction.
 On days on which DST goes into or out of effect, a special profile might be needed (e.g. for
relative profiles).
3.14. Time zones
This section is informative.
OCPP does not prescribe the use of a specific time zone for time values. However, it is strongly recommended to
use UTC for all time values to improve interoperability between Central Systems and Charge Points.
3.15. Time notations
This section is normative.
Implementations MUST use ISO 8601 date time notation. Message receivers must be able to handle fractional
seconds and time zone offsets (another implementation might use them). Message senders MAY save data
usage by omitting insignificant fractions of seconds.
3.16. Metering Data
This section is normative.
Extensive metering data relating to charging sessions can be recorded and transmitted in different ways
depending on its intended purpose. There are two obvious use cases (but the use of meter values is not limited
to these two):
• Charging Session Meter Values
• Clock-Aligned Meter Values
Both types of meter readings MAY be reported in standalone MeterValues.req messages (during a transaction)
and/or as part of the transactionData element of the StopTransaction.req PDU.
3.16.1. Charging Session Meter Values
Frequent (e.g. 1-5 minute interval) meter readings taken and transmitted (usually in "real time") to the Central
System, to allow it to provide information updates to the EV user (who is usually not at the charge point), via
web, app, SMS, etc., as to the progress of the charging session. In OCPP , this is called "sampled meter data", as
the exact frequency and time of readings is not very significant, as long as it is "frequent enough". "Sampled
meter data" can be configured with the following configuration keys:
29