messages that are still present in the Charge Point from before.
When the Central System responds with a BootNotification.conf with a status Accepted, the Charge Point will
adjust the heartbeat interval in accordance with the interval from the response PDU and it is RECOMMENDED to
synchronize its internal clock with the supplied Central System’s current time. If the Central System returns
something other than Accepted, the value of the interval field indicates the minimum wait time before sending a
next BootNotification request. If that interval value is zero, the Charge Point chooses a waiting interval on its
own, in a way that avoids flooding the Central System with requests. A Charge Point SHOULD NOT send a
BootNotification.req earlier, unless requested to do so with a TriggerMessage.req.
If the Central System returns the status Rejected, the Charge Point SHALL NOT send any OCPP message to the
Central System until the aforementioned retry interval has expired. During this interval the Charge Point may no
longer be reachable from the Central System. It MAY for instance close its communication channel or shut down
its communication hardware. Also the Central System MAY close the communication channel, for instance to
free up system resources. While Rejected, the Charge Point SHALL NOT respond to any Central System initiated
message. the Central System SHOULD NOT initiate any.
The Central System MAY also return a Pending registration status to indicate that it wants to retrieve or set
certain information on the Charge Point before the Central System will accept the Charge Point. If the Central
System returns the Pending status, the communication channel SHOULD NOT be closed by either the Charge
Point or the Central System. The Central System MAY send request messages to retrieve information from the
Charge Point or change its configuration. The Charge Point SHOULD respond to these messages. The Charge
Point SHALL NOT send request messages to the Central System unless it has been instructed by the Central
System to do so with a TriggerMessage.req request.
While in pending state, the following Central System initiated messages are not allowed:
RemoteStartTransaction.req and RemoteStopTransaction.req
4.2.1. Transactions before being accepted by a Central System
A Charge Point Operator MAY choose to configure a Charge Point to accept transactions before the Charge Point
is accepted by a Central System. Parties who want to implement this such behavior should realize that it is
uncertain if those transactions can ever be delivered to the Central System.
After a restart (for instance due to a remote reset command, power outage, firmware update, software error
etc.) the Charge Point MUST again contact the Central System and SHALL send a BootNotification request. If the
Charge Point fails to receive a BootNotification.conf from the Central System, and has no in-built non-volatile
real-time clock hardware that has been correctly preset, the Charge Point may not have a valid date / time
setting, making it impossible to later determine the date / time of transactions.
It might also be the case (e.g. due to configuration error) that the Central System indicates a status other than
Accepted for an extended period of time, or indefinitely.
It is usually advisable to deny all charging services at a Charge Point if the Charge Point has never before been
Accepted by the Central System (using the current connection settings, URL, etc.) since users cannot be
authenticated and running transactions could conflict with provisioning processes.
33