3.2. Functional Blocks
OCPP 2.1 consists of the following Functional Blocks.
Table 3. Functional Blocks
Clause Functional Block Title Description
A. Security This Functional Block describes a security specification for the OCPP
protocol.
B. Provisioning This Functional Block describes all the functionalities that help a CSO
provision their Charging Stations, allowing them to be registered and
accepted on their network and retrieving basic configuration information
from these Charging Stations.
C. Authorization This Functional Block describes all the authorization related functionality:
AuthorizeRequest message handling/behavior and Authorization Cache
functionality.
D. Local Authorization List Management This Functional Block describes functionality for managing the Local
Authorization List.
E. Transactions This Functional Block describes the basic OCPP Transaction related
functionality for transactions that are started/stopped on the Charging
Station.
F. Remote Control This Functional Block describes three types of use cases for remote control
management from the CSMS: Remote Transaction Control, Unlocking a
Connector and Remote Trigger.
G. Availability This functional Block describes the functionality of sending status
notification messages.
H. Reservation This Functional Block describes the reservation functionality of a Charging
Station.
I. Tariff and Cost This Functional Block provides tariff and cost information to an EV Driver,
when a Charging Station is capable of showing this on a display. Before a
driver starts charging tariff information needs to be given, detailed prices
for all the components that make up the tariff plan applicable to this driver
at this Charging Station. During charging the EV Driver needs to be shown
the running total cost, updated at a regular, fitting interval. When the EV
Driver stops charging the total cost of this transaction needs to be shown.
J. Metering This Functional Block describes the functionality for sending meter values,
on a periodic sampling and/or clock-aligned timing basis.
K. Smart Charging This Functional Block describes all the functionality that enables the CSO
(or indirectly a third party) to influence the charging current/power of a
charging session, or set limits to the amount of power/current a Charging
Station can offer to an EV.
L. Firmware Management This Functional Block describes the functionality that enables a CSO to
update the firmware of a Charging Station.
M. Certificate Management This Functional Block provides the installation and update of certificates.
N. Diagnostics This Functional Block describes the functionality that enables a CSO to
request and track the upload of a diagnostics file from a Charging Station,
and to manage the monitoring of Charging Station data.
O. Display Message With the DisplayMessage feature OCPP enables a CSO to display a
message on a Charging Station, that is not part of the firmware of the
Charging Station. The CSO gets control over these messages: the CSO can
set, retrieve (get), replace and clear messages.
P. Data Transfer This Functional Block describes the functionality that enables a party to add
custom commands to OCPP, enabling custom extension to OCPP.
Q Bidirectional Power Transfer This Functional block extends Smart Charging with bidirectional power
transfer (V2X).
R DER Control This Functional Block describes how charging stations and EVs can be
controlled as Distributed Energy Resources. It provides functions to
configure grid code parameters on a charging station via CSMS. It is
designed to support DER settings from IEC 61850 and IEEE 2030.5 on the
grid side, and ISO 15118-20 Amendment 1 on the EV side.
S Battery Swapping This Functional block describes how to deal with battery swap stations in
OCPP and adds the BatterySwap message.
Edition 2, 2025-12-03
OCPP 2.1 Edition 2 - © Open Charge Alliance 2025 9/15 Part 0 - Introduction