PAGE 1
PROFINET System Description
Technology and Application
PAGE 2

PAGE 3
PROFINET System Description I
Contents 
Introduction   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Information on the Contents  . . . . 4
1 . PROFINET at a glance  . . . . . . . . . . . 5
1.1 Ten Reasons for PROFINET ............ 5
1.2 Conformance Classes ................ 6
2 . Modeling and Engineering   . . . . . 6
2.1 System Model of a PROFINET  
System .............................. 6
2.2 Device Model of an IO Device ........ 7
2.3 Device Descriptions  ................. 8
2.4 Communication Relations  ........... 8
2.5 Addressing PROFINET Devices  ....... 9
2.6 Engineering of an IO System ......... 9
2.7 Web Integration ..................... 10
3 . Basic Functions  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
3.1 Cyclic Data Exchange  ................ 10
3.2 Acyclic Data Exchange ............... 11
3.3 Device/Network Diagnostics ......... 12
4 . Network Diagnostics and 
Management  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
4.1 Network Management Protocol ...... 12
4.2 Neighborhood Detection  ............ 12
4.3 Representation of the Topology ...... 13
4.4 Device Replacement ................. 13
4.5 Integration of Network Diagnostics  
into the IO System Diagnostics ....... 13
5 . Synchronous Real-Time  . . . . . . . . . 13
5.1 Cycle Synchronization  ............... 14
5.2 Mixed Operation ..................... 14
5.3 Optimized IRT Mode ................. 15
6 . Optional Functions  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
6.1 Multiple Access to Field Devices ...... 15
6.2 Extended Device Identification AMR .. 16
6.3 Individual Parameter Server .......... 16
6.4 Dynamic Reconfiguration (DR)  ....... 17
6.5 Reporting System – Time Stamping  .. 17
6.6 Fast Start Up ......................... 17
6.7 Higher Availability through Media  
Redundancy  ........................ 17
6.8 Higher Availability through System  
Redundancy  ........................ 18
6.9 Calling an Engineering Tool .......... 19
7 . Integration of other  
Communication Systems  . . . . . . . . 19
7.1 Integration of Fieldbuses ............. 19
7.2 Integration of IO-Link ................ 20
8 . Application Profiles  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
8.1 PROFIsafe  ........................... 21
8.2 PROFIdrive  .......................... 21
8.3 PROFIenergy  ........................ 21
9 . PROFINET for Process  
Automation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
10 . Network Installation  . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
10.1 Network Configuration ............. 23
10.2 Cables for PROFINET ................ 24
10.3 Connectors ......................... 24
10.4 Security ............................ 25
11 . PROFINET Technology and  
Certification   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
11.1 Technology Support ................ 26
11.2 Tools for Product Development ..... 26
11.3 Certification Test .................... 26
12 . Standardization  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
13 . PROFIBUS & PROFINET  
International (PI)  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
14 . Outlook  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
14.1 Time-Sensitive Networking  
(TSN) ............................... 28
14.2 Open Platform Communications  
Unified Architecture (OPC UA)  ...... 28
14.3 Industrie 4.0 ........................ 28
14.4 The Procedure of PI ................. 29
15 . Glossary  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . IV
16 . References  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . VI
PAGE 4
PROFINET System DescriptionII
List of Figures
Fig. 1: PROFINET satisfies all requirements of 
automation technology .............. 3
Fig. 2:  Structure of Conformance Classes  .... 6
Fig. 3: Communication paths for PROFINET .. 6
Fig. 4: Device model of a PROFINET field  
device ............................... 7
Fig. 5:  Addressing of IO data in PROFINET on  
the basis of slots and subslots  ........ 7
Fig. 6: GSD and engineering tool ............ 8
Fig. 7: Application and communication  
relations ............................. 8
Fig. 8: A field device can be accessed by  
multiple application relations ......... 8
Fig. 9: Name assignment .................... 9
Fig. 10:  Assignment of definitions in the GSD  
file to IO devices when configuring  
the system ........................... 9
Fig. 11: Real-time communication with cycle  
time monitoring  ..................... 11
Fig. 12: Diagnostic model for signaling faults  
with different priority  ................ 12
Fig. 13: PROFINET field devices know their 
neighbors ............................ 12
Fig. 14:  System topology ..................... 13
Fig. 15: PROFINET IO supports convenient  
device replacement without an 
engineering tool ..................... 13
Fig. 16: Integration of network diagnostics  
into the IO system diagnostics ........ 13
Fig. 17: IRT communication divides the bus  
cycle into a reserved interval (red)  
and an open interval (green)  ......... 13
Fig. 18:  Synchronization of the cycles in an  
IRT domain  .......................... 14
Fig. 19:  Mixed operation of synchronized and 
unsynchronized applications ......... 14
Fig. 20: Packing of individual frames into a  
group frame ......................... 15
Fig. 21: Shared device: Access by multiple 
controllers to different modules in a 
device ............................... 15
Fig. 22:  Shared input: Multiple controllers  
read the same inputs on a device ..... 16
Fig. 23: Clarifying I&M and AMR data roles .... 16
Fig. 24:  A parameter server can be used to 
automatically reload backed-up  
data during device replacement ...... 16
Fig. 25: Configuration changes without  
interruption of operation thanks to 
redundant connection  ............... 17
Fig. 26: Principle of time synchronization ..... 17
Fig. 27: Preventing circulation of frames  
through logical separation of  
the bus .............................. 18
Fig. 28: Scalable system redundancy with 
PROFINET ............................ 19
Fig. 29: Integration of fieldbus systems ....... 20
Fig. 30: Integration of IO-Link  ................ 20
Fig. 31: The "black channel" principle ......... 21
Fig. 32: Interoperability through PROFIdrive .. 21
Fig. 33: PROFINET in process automation ..... 22
Fig. 34: Ethernet networks in industrial  
environments usually have line  
topology ............................. 24
Fig. 35: PROFINET offers a range of industrial  
plug connectors  ..................... 25
Fig. 36: Security concept with multiple  
security zones ........................ 25
Fig. 37: Structure of standards ................ 27
Fig. 38: PROFIBUS & PROFINET  
International (PI) ..................... 27
Fig. 39: OPC enables uniform communication 
with different systems ................ 28
Fig. 40: TSN integration in PROFINET  ......... 29
Fig. 41: PROFINET and OPC UA ............... 29
List of Tables 
Tab. 1: List of basic functions  ................ 10
Tab. 2:  List of I&M data 0-5 ................... 11
Tab. 3: List of possible optional functions  .... 15
Tab. 4: Network installation for different  
Conformance Classes ................. 23
PAGE 5
PROFINET System Description 3
Introduction
Ever-shorter innovation cycles for new products 
makes the continuous evolution of automation 
technology a necessity. The use of fieldbus 
technology has represented a significant 
development since the early 90s. It has made it 
possible to migrate from centralized automation 
systems to decentralized ones. PROFIBUS, the 
global market leader, has set the benchmark here 
for more than 25 years.
In today's automation technology, Ethernet 
and Information Technology (IT) are calling the 
shots with established standards like TCP/IP and 
XML. Integrating information technology into 
automation opens up significantly better commu-
nication options between automation systems, 
extensive configuration and diagnostic possi-
bilities and system-wide service functionality. 
The transition from PROFIBUS to the Ethernet-
based PROFINET enables the integration of these 
functions as an integral component of PROFINET 
from the very beginning.
PROFINET is the open standard for indus-
trial Ethernet, covering all the requirements of 
automation technology (Figure 1). Whether the 
application involves production automation, 
process automation or drives (with or without 
functional safety), PROFINET is the first choice across 
the board. This technology has become standard 
in the automotive industry, widely disseminated 
in machine building and well-proven in the food 
and packaging, logistics and process industries. 
PROFINET has found its way into every area of 
application. New application areas are constantly 
emerging, such as marine and rail applications and 
even day-to-day operations, such as in a beverage 
store. 
PROFINET is currently the communication backbone 
for Industrie 4.0 in automation technology. Thanks 
to its open architecture, a PROFINET network makes 
all Ethernet-based IT functions fully available, 
enables open access to devices and enables the 
easy integration of other standards, such as OPC 
UA.
PROFINET is standardized in IEC 61158 and IEC 
61784. The ongoing development of PROFINET 
offers users a long-term solution for the implemen-
tation of their automation tasks.
For system and machine manufacturers, the 
use of PROFINET minimizes the cost of instal-
lation, engineering and commissioning. For 
system operators, PROFINET offers ease of system 
expansion and high system availability through 
autonomously running system units and low 
maintenance requirements.
The mandatory certification of all PROFINET devices 
also ensures a high-quality standard.
Fig. 1: PROFINET satisfies all requirements of automation technology
PAGE 6
PROFINET System Description4
Chapters 7 to 9 are dedicated to the integration of 
other technologies (such as fieldbuses), profiles and 
specific process automation topics with PROFINET 
and describe the additional benefits for PROFINET 
systems.
Chapter 10 describes relevant aspects of PROFINET 
networks, such as topologies, cables, connectors, 
web integration and security.
Chapter 11 is directed at product managers and 
provides information on product implementation 
and certification.
Chapter 12 provides an overview of the relevant 
standards for PROFINET. 
Chapter 13 provides information on PROFIBUS 
& PROFINET International (PI), the world's largest 
interest group for industrial automation.
Chapter 14 considers future developments in the 
PROFINET environment.
Information on the Contents
This document describes all essential aspects of 
the PROFINET technology. Individual topics are 
explained, and references to detailed information 
are provided. It is not necessary to follow the 
many links in the guideline to have a general 
understanding of the system description.
A true-to-detail representation of a network is 
often omitted within the figures, with a simplified 
schematic representation being shown instead.
Chapter 1 introduces PROFINET and provides 
an overview of the market position and modular 
design.
Chapter 2 describes the underlying models and 
the engineering of a PROFINET system.
Chapters 3 to 5 cover the basic functions of 
PROFINET communication from the perspective of 
Conformance Classes.
Chapter 6 contains a brief description of optional 
features used in different applications.
PAGE 7
PROFINET System Description 5
1 . PROFINET at a Glance
PROFINET is the communication standard 
for automation from PROFIBUS & PROFINET 
International (PI).
Its modular range of functions makes PROFINET 
a flexible system for all applications and markets. 
PROFINET is the networking solution of production 
and process automation, from applications with 
functional safety requirements and the entire 
spectrum of drive technology to isochronous 
motion control applications. The use of application 
profiles allows optimal usage of PROFINET in all 
areas of automation engineering.
1 .1 Ten Reasons for PROFINET
1 . Ease of use
The user-friendliness of PROFINET minimizes 
the costs of installation, engineering and 
commissioning for machine and system builders.
The system owner profits from ease of system 
expansion, high system availability and fast and 
efficient communication.
2 . Flexible network topology
PROFINET is switched Ethernet. To make out 
cost-effective and easy, many PROFINET devices 
already have a switch with two or more ports 
integrated into them. PROFINET is 100% Ethernet-
compatible as per IEEE standards and fullfills system 
requirements with its flexible topology. Line, ring 
and star structures are easy to implement with 
copper and fiber-optic cables. PROFINET enables 
wireless communication with WLAN and Bluetooth.
3 . Integrated diagnostics
PROFINET includes intelligent diagnostic concepts 
for field devices and networks. Acyclically 
transmitted diagnostic data provides important 
information on the status of the devices and 
communication and enables a user-friendly 
representation of the network.
4 . Integrated safety
PROFIsafe, the tried-and-tested technology for 
PROFIBUS functional safety, is also available for 
PROFINET. The ability to use the same cable for 
standard and safety-related communication yields 
savings for devices, engineering and setup.
5 . High availability
PROFINET integrates automatically responding 
redundancy solutions. The defined concepts for 
system redundancy and Dynamic Reconfiguration 
(DR) increase system availability considerably.
6 . Scalable real time
Communication takes place over the same cable 
in all applications, from simple control tasks to 
highly demanding motion control applications. 
For high-precision closed-loop control tasks, 
deterministic and isochronous transmission of 
time-critical process data with a jitter of less than 1 
µs is possible.
7 . A powerful system base
PROFINET fulfills the most wide-ranging 
requirements with its consistent, Ethernet-based 
communication. From data-intensive parameter 
configuration to extremely fast IO data transmission, 
PROFINET enables automation in real time and 
IT integration with a single system. This is a basic 
requirement for Industrie 4.0.
8 . Support for energy optimization
With the PROFIenergy profile integrated into 
PROFINET devices, the energy use in an automation 
system can be measured using a standardized 
method and controlled by selectively switching 
functions on and off without additional hardware.
9 . Sensor/actuator integration
IO-Link, the globally standardized IO technology 
(IEC 61131-9) for communicating with sensors 
and actuators, can be optimally integrated into 
PROFINET. This enables digital communication up 
to the sensor/actuator level.
The same applies for the established sensor/
actuator interfaces in the process industry. For 
the 4 – 20 mA, HART and PROFIBUS PA interfaces, 
options for universal engineering, diagnostics and 
maintenance are available. 
10 . Global support
With its network of Competence Centers, 
the PROFIBUS & PROFINET International (PI) 
organization offers solid training and consultation 
across the globe. Establishment of the proven 
certification process achieves a high standard 
of quality for PROFINET products and their 
interoperability in systems.
PAGE 8
PROFINET System Description6
1 .2 Conformance Classes
As a broad standard, PROFINET offers a large 
number of functions. These functions are divided 
into Conformance Classes in a clear way. They 
provide a practical summary of the various different 
minimum property values.
Fig. 2: Structure of Conformance Classes
There are three Conformance Classes (CC) which 
build upon one another (see Figure 2).
Conformance Class A (CC-A) provides basic functions 
for PROFINET with real-time (RT) communication. 
All IT services can be used without restriction. 
Typical applications are found, for example, in 
business automation. Wireless communication is 
specified for this class.
Conformance Class B (CC-B) expands PROFINET to 
include network diagnostics using IT mechanisms 
and topology information of the network.
Conformance Class C (CC-C) describes the basic 
functions for devices with hardware-supported 
bandwidth reservation and synchronization 
Isochronous Real-Time (IRT) communication and is 
thus the basis for isochronous applications.
The Conformance Classes also serve as the basis for 
certification and cabling guidelines.
Building upon the three Conformance Classes (A, 
B and C), which describe the basic communication 
properties, there are currently seven application 
classes which combine a required scope of 
functions for certain applications.
A detailed description of the Conformance 
Classes can be found in the document entitled 
"The PROFINET Conformance Classes" [7.041]  
(www.profibus.com/pncc).
2 . Modeling and 
Engineering
This section presents the models of a PROFINET 
system and explains the addressing options.
2 .1 System Model of a PROFINET  
 System
PROFINET follows the provider/consumer model 
for data exchange. This means that both the IO 
controller and IO device spontaneously send cyclic 
data independently. 
The following device classes are defined for 
PROFINET (Figure 3):
Fig. 3: Communication paths for PROFINET
IO controller: This is typically the Programmable 
Logic Controller (PLC) in which the automation 
program runs. The IO controller provides output 
data to the configured IO devices in its role as 
provider and is the consumer of input data.
IO device: An IO device is a distributed IO field 
device connected to one or more IO controllers via 
PROFINET. The IO device is the provider of input 
data and the consumer of output data from the  
IO controller.
IO supervisor: This can be a programming device 
(PG), personal computer (PC) or human machine 
interface (HMI) device for commissioning or 
diagnostic purposes.
A system unit contains at least one IO controller and 
one or more IO devices. IO supervisors are usually 
integrated only temporarily for commissioning or 
troubleshooting purposes.
PAGE 9
PROFINET System Description 7
2 .2 Device Model of an IO Device
The technical and functional options of all field 
devices are described using the device model, 
which is oriented toward a modular device (Figure 
4). 
PROFINET differentiates between compact field 
devices, in which the degree of expansion is 
already specified in the as-delivered condition 
and cannot be changed by the user, and modular 
field devices, in which the degree of expansion 
can be customized for a specific application when 
the system is configured. In its logical structure, a 
PROFINET field device is always modular in design. 
Modularity in the logical sense, however, does 
not require actual modularity in the electrical and 
mechanical design sense. 
An IO device is usually comprised of a communi-
cation module with Ethernet interface and (physical 
or virtual) modules assigned to it. The assigned 
modules handle the actual process data traffic. The 
access point for communication (Ethernet interface 
with data processing) is called the DAP (Device 
Access Point). 
The following structures are standardized for an IO 
device:
• The device model consists of slots, subslots, 
modules, submodules and channels.
• The slot designates the insertion slot of a 
module in an IO field device. A field device 
usually has two or more slots.
• A module is comprised of one or more submo-
dules or provides available subslots into which 
submodules can be inserted.
• The modules themselves have no task other 
than to provide structuring. The actual inputs 
and outputs (channels) are implemented in its 
submodules. The granularity of the channels 
(bitwise, bytewise or wordwise division of 
IO data) is determined by the manufacturer. 
Acyclic services always address submodules. 
Therefore, a module always contains at least 
one submodule.
• The data content of a submodule is always 
accompanied by status information.
The index specifies the data within a submodule 
inserted into a slot/subslot which can be read or 
written acyclically using read/write services. For 
example, parameters can be written to a module, 
or manufacturer-specific module data can be read 
out on the basis of an index. Specific indexes are 
defined in the standard here. Additional indexes 
can be freely defined by the manufacturer.
The submodule is the owner of the user data, 
diagnostics, channels, actual configuration, records 
and I&M data. Cyclic IO data of the submodule in 
the device is addressed by specifying the slot/
subslot combination of the insertion slot. They can 
be freely defined by the manufacturer. For acyclic 
data communication via read/write services, an 
application can specify the data of the submodule 
to be addressed using slot, subslot and index 
(Figure 5).
Fig. 5: Addressing of IO data in PROFINET on the 
basis of slots and subslots
Fig. 4: Device model of a PROFINET field device

PAGE 10
PROFINET System Description8
To avoid user profiles (e.g. for PROFIdrive, weighing 
and dosing) from having competing definitions, 
each of the profiles is assigned its own application 
process identifier (API).
Additional information on the device model can be 
found in the design recommendation for PROFINET 
field devices, which is available as a free download 
(www.profibus.com/pnfd).
2 .3 Device Descriptions
To enable system engineering, the GSD files (General 
Station Description) of the field devices to be confi-
gured are required. This XML-based GSD describes 
the properties and functions of the PROFINET field 
device, including its modules and submodules. It 
contains all data relevant for engineering as well as 
for data exchange with the field device.
In particular, GSD files enable the engineering of a 
PROFINET system or PROFINET application without 
the devices used having to be physically present.
The GSD is essential for a PROFINET field device, 
as engineering is impossible without it. Every 
manufacturer of a PROFINET field device must 
create an associated GSD file. It will be checked as 
part of the certification test.
The engineering tool obtains knowledge about the 
device using the GSD data. The GSD file is read into 
the engineering tool (e.g. programming device) 
once for this purpose (Figure 6). The field device can 
then be configured, for example, from the product 
catalog of the engineering tool.
Fig. 6: GSD and engineering tool
Additional detailed information on the GSD can be 
found in the design recommendation for PROFINET 
field devices, which is available as a free download 
(www.profibus.com/pnfd).
2 .4 Communication Relations
To establish communication between the higher-
level controller and an IO device, the communi-
cation paths must be established. These are set 
up by the IO controller during system startup 
based on the configuration data received from 
the engineering system. This specifies the data 
exchange explicitly.
All data exchange is embedded into an AR (Appli-
cation Relation) (Figure 7). Within the AR, CRs 
(Communication Relations) specify the data expli-
citly. As a result, all data for device modeling, 
including the general communication parameters, 
are downloaded to the IO device. An IO device can 
have multiple ARs established from different IO 
controllers, for example, for shared devices.
Fig. 7: Application and communication relations
The communication channels for cyclic data 
exchange (IO data CR), acyclic data exchange 
(record data CR) and alarms (alarm CR) are set up 
simultaneously.
Multiple IO controllers can be used in a PROFINET 
system (Figure 8). If these IO controllers are to be 
able to access the same data in the IO devices, this 
must be specified during parameter configuration 
(shared devices and shared inputs).
Fig. 8: A field device can be accessed by multiple 
application relations
An IO controller can establish one AR each with 
multiple IO devices. Within an AR, several IO CRs 
on different APIs can be used for data exchange. 
This can be useful, for example, if more than one 
user profile (PROFIdrive, encoder etc.) is involved 
in communication and different submodules are 
required.
PAGE 11
PROFINET System Description 9
MAC address and OUI (organizationally unique identifier)
Each PROFINET device is addressed using its globally unique MAC address. This MAC address consists of 
a company code (bits 24 to 47) as an OUI (Organizationally Unique Identifier) and a consecutive number 
(bits 0 to 23). With an OUI, up to 16,777,214 products of a single manufacturer can be identified.
Bit value 47 to 24 Bit value 23 to 0
00 0E CF XX XX XX
Company code -> OUI Consecutive number
The OUI is available free of charge from the IEEE Standards Department. 
PI provides all device manufacturers which do not want to apply for their own OUI with four K-areas of 
the PI OUI. This service allows companies to acquire MAC addresses directly from the PI Support Center. 
The OUI of PI is 00-0E-CF.
2 .5 Addressing PROFINET  
 Devices 
Ethernet devices always communicate using their 
unique MAC address (see box).
In a PROFINET system, each field device receives a 
symbolic name which uniquely identifies the field 
device within the IO system (Figure 9). The device is 
identified and configured with this name within the 
engineering process. The exact MAC & IP addresses 
are resolved using this name when the PROFINET 
application is started.
The DCP protocol (Discovery and basic Configu-
ration Protocol) is used for this. The device name 
is assigned to the individual IO device and thus 
to its MAC address by an engineering tool using 
the DCP protocol during commissioning (device 
initialization). Optionally, the name can also be 
automatically assigned by the IO controller to the 
IO device by means of a specified topology based 
on neighborhood detection. Assignment of the IP 
address occurs from the project via DCP , using the 
generally common and internationally widespread 
DHCP (Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol) or 
using manufacturer-specific mechanisms. In the 
latter two cases, the IP addresses are read out of 
the controller automatically via DCP so that no 
manual access is required here either. The options 
supported by a field device are defined in the GSD 
file for the respective field device.
Fig. 9: Name assignment
2 .6 Engineering of an IO System
Each IO controller manufacturer also provides 
an engineering tool for configuring a PROFINET 
system.
During parameter configuration, the IO controllers 
and IO devices are defined in a PROFINET system. 
The desired properties of the cyclic data exchange 
within the communication relations are specified 
for this.
For each IO device, the intended population of the 
slots and subslots with modules and submodules 
must be defined. The possible population varia-
tions are saved in the GSD. At the same time, more 
precise behavior and properties of the devices 
and modules/submodules can be specified using 
parameters. The configuring engineer configures 
the real system, so to speak, symbolically in the 
engineering tool. Figure 10 shows the relationship 
between GSD definitions, the configuration and the 
real device view.
During commissioning, the configuration of the 
PROFINET IO system is downloaded to the IO 
controller. This means that the IO controller has all 
the information for addressing and data exchange 
with the IO devices.
Fig. 10: Assignment of definitions in the GSD 
file to IO devices when configuring the 
system
PAGE 12
PROFINET System Description10
Either the devices of the PROFINET system are now 
assigned to the device name with the engineering 
tool or the IO controller is informed of the planned 
topology. Based on the topology information, the 
IO controller automatically provides the device 
names and gives all planned IO devices their IP 
address during system startup. An IO controller 
always initiates system power-up after a startup/
restart based on the configuration data without any 
intervention by the user. During system startup, the 
IO controller establishes a uniquely specified Appli-
cation Relation (AR) with the associated Communi-
cation Relations (CR) for each configured IO device. 
This specifies the cyclic IO data, alarms, exchange 
of acyclic read/write services and the expected 
modules/submodules. .
2 .7 Web Integration
PROFINET expands Ethernet to include automation-
specific functions without restricting existing 
properties. This enables, among other things, 
the use of web technologies such as access to 
an integrated web server on the field devices. 
Depending on the implementation in the devices, 
diagnostic information can be called up beyond 
network boundaries with standard web browsers, 
for example. PROFINET itself does not define any 
specific content or format. Rather, it allows for an 
open and free implementation.
3 . Basic Functions
The basic functions of Conformance Class A include: 
• The cyclical exchange of IO data with real-time 
properties. 
• Acyclic data traffic for reading and writing 
need-based data (parameters and diagnostic 
data), including the identification and mainte -
nance function (I&M) for reading out device 
information. 
• A flexible alarm model for signaling device and 
network errors with three alarm levels (mainte-
nance requirement, urgent maintenance requi-
rement and diagnostics).
Requirement Technical function/
solution
Cyclic data exchange PROFINET with RT 
communication
Acyclic parameter 
data/
Device identification 
(HW/FW)
Read Record/
Write Record
IM0, 1, 2, 3
IM 4 (F-submodules)
IM 5 (communication 
module)
Devices/Network 
diagnostics (alarms)
Diagnostics and 
maintenance
Tab. 1: List of basic functions
3 .1 Cyclic Data Exchange
Cyclic IO data is transmitted via the "IO data CR" 
unacknowledged as real-time data between the 
provider and consumer in a parameterizable time 
frame. The update time can be specified indivi-
dually for connections to the individual devices 
and are thus adapted to the requirements of the 
application. Likewise, different update times can be 
selected for the input and output data within the 
range of 250 µs to 512 ms (Figure 11).
The connection is monitored using a time 
monitoring setting derived from a multiple of the 
update time. During data transmission in the frame, 
the data of a submodule is followed by a provider 
status. This status information is evaluated by the 
respective consumer of the IO data. It can use this 
information to evaluate the validity of the data 
from the cyclic data exchange alone. In addition, 
the consumer statuses for the counter direction 
are transmitted. The data in the message frames 
is followed by accompanying information about 
their validity and redundancy and which evaluates 
the diagnostic status (data status and transfer 
status). The cycle information (cycle counter) of the 
provider is also specified so that its update time can 
be determined easily. Failure of cyclic data to arrive 
is monitored by the respective consumer in the 
communication relation. If the configured data fails 
to arrive within the monitoring time, the consumer 
sends an error message to the application.
The cyclic data exchange can be realized with 
standard Ethernet controllers and takes place 
without any TCP/IP information directly on layer 2 
with Ethertype 0x8892.
PAGE 13
PROFINET System Description 11
Fig. 11: Real-time communication with cycle time 
monitoring
For the network infrastructure with CC-A devices, 
commercially available switches which meet at 
least the following requirements can be used:
• Support of 100 Mbps full duplex with auto 
crossover and auto negotiation according to 
IEEE 802.3.
• Prioritization of cyclic data with VLAN tag 
priority 6 according to IEEE 802.1Q or TCI.PCP 
in the latest IEEE 802.1.
• Support of neighborhood detection with the 
Link Layer Discovery Protocol (LLDP) according 
to IEEE 802.1AB, i.e. these messages with their 
special Ethertype may not be forwarded by the 
switch.
3 .2 Acyclic Data Exchange
Acyclic data exchange using the "record data CR" 
can be used for parameter configuration and other 
configuration of the IO devices or reading out status 
information. This is accomplished with read / write 
services based on UDP , in which the data records 
are distinguished by the index. In addition to this 
access, the devices can be accessed manufacturer-
specifically via web server, OPC UA,… These access 
variants, which are not specified in PROFINET, are 
summarized under the synonym TCP / IP . In addition 
to the data records which are freely definable by 
device manufacturers, the following system data 
records are defined:
Diagnostic information about the network and 
the devices can be read out by the user from any 
device at any time. 
Identification and Maintenance (I&M) data 
supports unique identification of the devices, 
modules and submodules and their versions. This 
identification information is an important basis for 
maintaining the system and for asset management. 
For example, this allows inferences to be drawn 
regarding incorrect behavior or unsupported 
functionality in a field device. This information 
is specified in the I&M data structures. The I&M 
functions are subdivided into six different blocks 
(IM0 to IM5) and can be addressed separately using 
their index. 
IThe IM0 function provides information about the 
hardware and firmware versions of the field device 
and must be supported by each device. 
The IM1 – 3 data contain system-dependent infor -
mation, such as the installation location and date, 
and are created during configuration and written to 
the device. 
IM4 is used for a signature with PROFIsafe. 
IM5 is mandatory if the PROFINET device contains 
a separate communication module with its own 
hardware/firmware (see Figure 23). The IM5 data 
provides information about the communication 
module of a field device, comparable to an elect -
ronic nameplate. A differentiation can thus be 
made between the HW/FW versions of the commu-
nication module and the actual device. The actual 
device reports its HW/FW versions via IM0.
The I&M guideline entitled "Identification & 
Maintenance Functions" [3.502] provides further 
information on this concept and is available 
for download free of charge for members  
(www.profibus.com/imf).
IM0 Main function HW/FW version
IM1 TAG_FUNCTION TAG_LOCATION System designation, location designation
IM2 INSTALLATION_ DATE Installation date
IM3 DESCRIPTOR Comment
IM4 SIGNATURE Signature
IM5 Communication modul HW/FW version
Tab. 2: List of I&M data 0-5
PAGE 14
PROFINET System Description12
3 .3 Device/Network Diagnostics
A status-based maintenance approach is currently 
gaining relevance for operation and maintenance. 
It is based on the capability of devices and compo -
nents to determine their state and to communicate 
them using agreed-upon mechanisms. A system for 
reliable signaling of alarms and status messages by 
the IO devices to the IO controller was defined for 
PROFINET for this purpose.
This alarm concept covers both system-defined 
events (such as removal and insertion of modules) 
as well as signaling of faults which were detected 
in the controller technology utilized (e.g. defective 
load voltage or wire break). This is based on a state 
model which defines "good" and "defective" states 
as well as (optionally) the "maintenance required" 
and "maintenance demanded" pre-warning levels. 
A typical example of "maintenance required" is 
the loss of media redundancy. When a redundant 
connection is lost, "maintenance required" is 
signaled, but all nodes can still be reached.
Diagnostic alarms must be used if the error or 
event occurs within an IO device or in conjunction 
with the connected components. They can signal 
an incoming or outgoing fault status (Figure 12).
Fig. 12: Diagnostic model for signaling faults with 
different priority
In addition, the user can define corresponding 
process alarms for messages from the process, 
e.g. limit temperature exceeded. In this case, the IO 
device may still be operable. These process alarms 
can be prioritized differently from the diagnostic 
alarms.
The "Diagnosis for PROFINET IO" [7.142] documen-
tation provides additional information on these 
concepts and is available for download free of 
charge for members (www.profibus.com/dpn).
4 . Network Diagnostics and 
Management
In Conformance Class B, the network diagnostics 
of all PROFNET devices is expanded and topology 
detection is introduced. This information is 
compiled in the management information base 
(MIB) and the extensions to the Link Layer Discovery 
Protocol (LLDP-EXT MIB) and can be read out from 
each PROFINET device using the Simple Network 
Management Protocol (SNMP) or the acyclic 
PROFINET services for the physical device object 
(PDEV).
4 .1 Network Management Protocol
In existing networks, SNMP has established itself 
as the de facto standard for maintenance and 
monitoring of network components and their 
functions. For diagnostic purposes, SNMP can 
access network components in order to read out 
network-specific statistical data as well as port-
specific data and information for neighborhood 
detection. In order to monitor PROFINET devices 
even with established management systems, the 
implementation of SNMP is mandatory for devices 
of Conformance Classes B and C.
4 .2 Neighborhood Detection
Fig. 13: PROFINET field devices know their  
neighbors
Automation systems can be flexibly constructed as 
a star, tree, line or ring structure.
PROFINET field devices use the LLDP protocol 
according to IEEE 802.1AB to exchange the available 
addressing information over each port. This allows 
the respective port neighbor to be uniquely 
identified and the physical structure of the network 
to be determined. In Figure 13 – as an example – 
the "delta" device is connected to "port010" of 
"switch1" via "port001" .
PAGE 15
PROFINET System Description 13
With this neighborhood detection, a preset/actual 
comparison of the topology is possible and changes 
to topology during operation can be recognized 
immediately. This is also the basis for automatic 
naming during device replacement.
4 .3 Representation of the Topology
Fig. 14: System topology
A system owner can use a suitable tool to graphi-
cally display a system topology and port-granular 
diagnostics (Figure 14). The information found 
during neighborhood detection is collected using 
the SNMP protocol for this purpose. This provides 
the system owner with a quick overview of the 
system status.
4 .4 Device Replacement
If a field device fails in a known topology, it is 
possible to check whether the replacement device 
has been reconnected in the proper position. It is 
even possible to replace devices without the use of 
an engineering tool. When replaced, a device at a 
given position in the topology receives the same 
name and parameters as its predecessor (Figure 15).
Fig. 15: PROFINET IO supports convenient device 
replacement without an engineering tool 
The controller knows the "neighborhood" of the 
devices and checks it following a device repla-
cement. Using this information and the degree of 
expansion of the device, it identifies whether or not 
it is a replacement device. 
4 .5 Integration of Network  
 Diagnostics into the IO System 
 Diagnostics
Fig. 16: Integration of network diagnostics into 
the IO system diagnostics
For the integration of network diagnostics into the 
IO system diagnostics, it must also be possible to 
model a switch as a PROFINET IO device. Acting as 
an IO device, this type of switch can signal identified 
network errors of a lower-level Ethernet line and 
specific operating states to its IO controller by trans-
mitting acyclic alarms using the "alarm CR" (number 
1 in Figure 16). In this way, network diagnostics can 
be integrated into the IO system diagnostics. Access 
from a network manager (number 2 in Figure 16) 
remains possible.
5 . Synchronous Real-Time
Fig. 17: IRT communication divides the bus cycle 
into a reserved interval (red) and an open 
interval (green)
PAGE 16
PROFINET System Description14
Conformance Class C includes all necessary 
network-wide synchronization functions for appli-
cations with the most stringent requirements 
for deterministic behavior. Networks based on 
Conformance Class C enable applications having 
a jitter of less than 1 microsecond (1 µs). The cyclic 
data packets are transferred as synchronized 
packets during a reserved bandwidth (red phase) 
(Figure 17). All other packets, such as packets for 
diagnostics or TCP/IP , share the remaining Ethernet 
bandwidth (green phase).
By default, the minimum update rate is defined 
at 250 µs in Conformance Class C. For maximum 
control performance, this can be reduced to as 
low as 31.25 µs, depending on the hardware used. 
In order to expand quantity structures when cycle 
times are set at less than 250 µs, a message frame 
optimization method (Dynamic Frame Packing, 
or DFP) is incorporated. With this method, nodes 
which are wired together in a line structure are 
addressed with one frame. In addition, for cycle 
times less than 250 µs, TCP/IP communication is 
fragmented and transmitted in smaller packets.
The isochronism (Greek "iso" = same + "chronos" = 
time) can be related to the communication itself as 
well as to the application. 
These concepts and the planning procedure 
are explained in detail in the "PROFINET IRT 
Engineering" [7.172] document. This is available 
for download free of charge for members  
(www.profibus.com/pnirt).
The most important elements are summarized as 
follows.
5 .1 Cycle Synchronization
Fig. 18: Synchronization of the cycles in an IRT 
domain
In order for the bus cycles to run synchronously 
(at the same time) with a maximum deviation of 1 
µs, all devices involved in synchronous communi-
cation must have a common clock. A clock master 
uses synchronization frames to synchronize all local 
clock pulse generators of devices within a clock 
system (IRT domain) to the same clock (Figure 18). 
For this purpose, all of the devices involved in this 
type of clock system must be connected directly 
to one another without crossing through any 
non-synchronized devices. Multiple independent 
clock systems can be defined in one network.
To achieve the desired accuracy for the synchroni-
zation and synchronous operation, the run-time on 
each connecting cable (cable delay) must be deter-
mined via measurement using defined Ethernet 
frames. Together with the forwarding times of the 
device or switches, all time ratios in the IRT system 
are known and can be figured into the synchroni-
zation. If the IO controller (clock master) in Figure 
18 sends out a synchronization frame with the time 
of the clock master which reaches IO device 3 after 
10 µs, IO device 3 experiences the frame having 
been underway for 10 µs and that the conveyed 
time of the clock master is 10 µs old and can set its 
own clock to it as the clock slave. IO controllers and 
IO devices derive the cycle from this time. Special 
hardware precautions must be taken for imple -
menting this clock synchronization.
The high-precision time synchronization of all 
communication nodes is a requirement for division 
of the bandwidth and the transmission times in 
the red and green phase (Figure 17). In each cycle, 
the synchronous data is first transmitted in the 
red phase. This red phase is protected from delays 
caused by other data and allows a high level of 
determinism. In the subsequent open green phase, 
all other data are transmitted according to IEEE 
802.1Q and the specified priorities. The division of 
the individual phases may vary. If forwarding of the 
data before the start of the next reserved phase is 
not assured, these frames are stored temporarily 
and sent in the next green phase.
5 .2 Mixed Operation
Fig. 19: Mixed operation of synchronized and 
unsynchronized applications
PAGE 17
PROFINET System Description 15
A combination of synchronous and asynchronous 
communication within an automation system is 
possible if certain preconditions are met. Figure 19 
shows an expample of a mixed operation. In this 
example, a synchronizable switch has been integ-
rated in the field device for devices 1 to 3. The other 
two devices are connected via a standard Ethernet 
port and thus communicate asynchronously. The 
switch ensures that this occurs only during the 
green phase.
5 .3  Optimized IRT Mode
When the timescales are subject to stringent requi-
rements, the efficiency of the topology-oriented 
synchronized communication can be optimized 
using Dynamic Frame Packing (DFP) (Figure 20). 
For a line structure, the synchronous data of several 
devices is optionally combined into one Ethernet 
frame. In addition, the individual cyclic real-time 
data can be extracted for each node so that the 
remaining frame, and thus the delivery time, are 
shortened. Because the data from the field devices 
to the controller is also strictly synchronized, this 
data can be assembled by the switch in a single 
Ethernet frame. Ideally, only one frame is then 
transmitted for all involved field devices in the red 
phase. This frame is disassembled or assembled in 
the corresponding switch, if required.
Fig. 20: Packing of individual frames into a group 
frame
DFP is optional for systems with stringent requi-
rements. The functionalities of the other phases 
are retained, i.e. mixed operation is also possible 
here. To achieve short bus cycles as low as 31.25 
µs, however, the green phase must also be sharply 
reduced. To accomplish this, the standard Ethernet 
frames for the application are transparently disas-
sembled into smaller fragments, transmitted in 
small pieces and reassembled.
6 . Optional Functions
PROFINET also offers a variety of optional functions 
not included in devices as standard by way of 
Conformance Classes and application classes 
(Table 3). If additional functions are to be used, this 
must be checked on a case-by-case basis using the 
device properties (data sheet, manuals and General 
Station Description file, GSD file).
Requirement Technical 
function/solution
Multiple access to inputs by 
various controllers
Shared input
Division of device functions 
across multiple submodules 
on different controllers
Shared device
Extended device identifi-
cation
Asset 
Management 
Record (AMR)
Automatic parameter confi-
guration of devices using 
parameter sets
Individual 
parameter server
Configuration changes 
during operation
Dynamic Reconfi-
guration (DR)
Time stamping of IO data Reporting system
Fast restart after voltage 
recovery
Fast Start Up 
(FSU)
Higher availability through 
ring redundancy
MRP/MRPD
Call of a device-specific 
engineering tool
Tool Calling 
Interface (TCI)
Tab. 3: List of possible optional functions
6 .1 Multiple Access to Field Devices
Fig. 21: Shared device: Access by multiple con-
trollers to different modules in a device
The starting point for shared devices is the parallel 
and independent access of two (or more) different 
controllers to the same device (Figure 21). In the 
PAGE 18
PROFINET System Description16
case of a shared device, the user configures a fixed 
assignment of different submodules used in a device 
to a selected controller. One possible application of 
a shared device is in applications with functional 
safety in which a fail-safe CPU controls the safe 
portion of the device and a standard controller 
controls the standard IO within the same station. 
In the safety scenario, the F-CPU uses the fail-safe 
portion to safely switch off the supply voltage of 
the outputs or activate drive-based safety functions 
(e.g. Safe Torque Off, STO), for example.
Fig. 22: Shared input: Multiple controllers read 
the same inputs on a device
In the case of a shared input, there is parallel access 
to the same input by two different controllers 
(Figure 22). Thus, an input signal which must be 
processed in two different controllers of a system 
does not have to be wired twice or transferred via 
CPU-to-CPU communication.
6 .2 Extended Device Identification 
 AMR
Asset Management Record (AMR)
AMR data is data from externally connected devices. 
The differences between I&M data and AMR data 
are shown in Figure 23.
Internal components (firmware and/or hardware) 
of a device with a PROFINET interface which can 
be replaced or updated for maintenance or repair 
purposes can be represented either using I&M data 
or an AM record. Using the Asset Management 
Record (AMR), it is thus possible to integrate 
device information outside the PROFINET appli-
cation space into PROFINET mechanisms, e.g. HW/
FW versions of locally connected devices or driver 
versions.
The structure of the AMR is based on IM0 but offers 
additional options for representing versions with a 
text string field.
Fig. 23: Clarifying I&M and AMR data roles
6 .3 Individual Parameter Server
The individual parameter server functionality 
is available for backing up and reloading other 
optional individual parameters of a field device 
(Figure 24).
Fig. 24: A parameter server can be used to  
automatically reload backed-up data  
during device replacement
The basic parameter configuration of the submo -
dules of an IO device is carried out using the 
parameters defined in the GSD file of the IO 
device. A GSD file contains module parameters 
of the peripheral modules described as submo -
dules, among other things. They are stored as 
static parameters and can be loaded from the IO 
controller to an IO device during system power-up. 
With some IO devices, it is either impossible or 
insufficient to initialize parameters using the GSD 
approach due to the quantities, the user guidance 
or the security requirements involved. Such data 
for specific devices and technologies is referred 
to as individual parameters (iPar). Often, these 
parameters can be specified only during commis-
sioning. If a submodule of such an IO device fails, 
the parameters must be reloaded into the new 
submodule after the submodule is replaced. An 
additional tool is not needed for this. The individual 
parameter server provides the system owner with 
a convenient and standardized solution for this 
which saves the current individual parameters and 
loads them into the new submodule(s) after repla-
cement.
PAGE 19
PROFINET System Description 17
6 .4 Dynamic Reconfiguration (DR)
As with redundancy, uninterrupted system 
operation also plays a critical role in process 
automation in the case of configuration changes 
to devices and the network or for the insertion, 
removal or replacement of devices or individual 
modules (Figure 25).
Fig. 25: Configuration changes without interrup-
tion of operation thanks to redundant 
connection
All of these Dynamic Reconfiguration (DR) measures 
are carried out in PROFINET without any inter -
ruption and without adversely affecting network 
communication. This ensures that system repairs, 
modifications and expansions can be performed 
without a system shutdown during continuous 
production processes.
This concept is described in detail in the "PN 
High Availability" [7.242] document and is 
available as a free download for members  
(www.profibus.com/hapn).
6 .5 Reporting System – Time  
 Stamping
In large systems, the ability to assign alarms and 
status messages to a sequence of events is often 
required. For this purpose, optional time stamping 
of these messages is possible in PROFINET IO. In 
order to time stamp data and alarms, the relevant 
field devices must have the same time of day. 
To accomplish this, a master clock and the time 
synchronization protocol IEEE 802.1 AS are used to 
set the clocks to the same time (Figure 26).
Fig. 26: Principle of time synchronization
The time-of-day master sends synchronization 
frames to the time-of-day slaves at certain time 
intervals. The cable and switch delay times are 
taken into account during their path through the 
network. As a result, the time-of-day slaves know 
how long the synchronization message took to go 
from the master clock to the slave and can take this 
into account in the time-of-day setting. 
For time-of-day synchronization, PROFINET uses 
the generalized precision time protocol (gPTP), 
which is specified in IEEE 802.1 AS. 
Cycle synchronization for IRT and drive control 
(Chapter 5) generally occurs according to the same 
procedure. A network-wide cycle and the relative 
times based on the clock master are of impor -
tance, too. However an absolute time of day is not 
required, here. 
6 .6 Fast Start Up
Fast Start Up (FSU) defines an optimized system 
power-up in which data exchange begins much 
faster starting with the second power-up, as many 
parameters are already stored in the field device. 
This optional feature can be used in parallel with 
standard power-up (which is still used after a 
power-on in the case of the first power-up or 
reset). The communication parameters are stored 
persistently for this. A typical application would be 
the changing of robot tools, for example. . 
6 .7 Higher Availability through  
 Media Redundancy
Wherever a production disruption can lead to high 
economic losses or a risk to the environment, high 
availability is required. To minimize the risk of a 
system standstill, redundant structures are selected. 
PROFINET provides various different options for 
communication, from simple media redundancy to 
complete system redundancy. Media redundancy is 
based on ring structures which quickly enable an 
alternative communication path in case of a fault. A 
variety of different options are available for system 
redundancy, depending on the requirement. 
Media redundancy
Daisy chaining multiport switches allowed the 
star topology widely used in Ethernet to be effec -
tively combined with a line structure. This combi-
nation is especially well-suited for control cabinet 
connection, i.e. line connection between control 
cabinets and star connection to the process-level 
field devices. If the connection between two field 
devices in a line is interrupted, the field devices 
PAGE 20
PROFINET System Description18
situated after the interruption are no longer acces-
sible. If increased availability is required, provisions 
must be made for redundant communication paths 
when planning the system, and field devices/
switches which support the redundancy concept of 
PROFINET must be used.
A redundant communication path can than be 
formed efficiently by closing a line to form a ring. 
In the event of an error, the connection to all nodes 
is ensured via the alternative connection. This 
achieves a tolerance for one fault. Organizational 
measures must be taken to ensure that this fault is 
eliminated before a second one occurs.
PROFINET has the following two mechanisms 
for setting up ring-shaped media redundancy, 
depending on the requirements:
Media Redundancy Protocol (MRP)
The MRP protocol according to IEC 62439-2 
describes PROFINET redundancy with a typical 
reconfiguration time of less than 200 ms for commu-
nication paths with TCP/IP and RT frames after a 
fault. Error-free operation of an automation system 
involves a Media Redundancy Manager (MRM) and 
several Media Redundancy Clients (MRC) arranged 
in a ring as shown in Figure 27.
Fig. 27: Preventing circulation of frames through 
logical separation of the bus
The task of a Media Redundancy Manager (MRM) is 
to check the functional capability of the configured 
ring structure. This is done by sending out cyclic 
test frames (control frames). As long as it receives 
all of its test frames back, the ring structure is intact. 
For all other frames, the redundancy manager 
logically opens the ring. Through this behavior, an 
MRM converts a ring structure into a line structure 
and thus prevents the circulation of frames.
A Media Redundancy Client (MRC) is a switch that 
acts only as a "passer" of frames and generally does 
not assume an active role. In order for it to be integ-
rated into a ring, it must have at least two switch 
ports.
Media Redundancy for Planned Duplication 
(MRPD)
IEC 61158 describes the redundancy concept MRPD 
(Media Redundancy for Planned Duplication) 
for IRT communication, which enables smooth 
switchover from one communication path to 
another in the event of a fault and is used together 
with MRP . This concept is based on ring redun-
dancy. The IO controller sends the IO data to the 
devices in both directions of the ring at the same 
time. During system power-up, the IO controller 
loads the information of the communication paths 
for both communication channels (directions) in to 
the individual nodes in the ring. Thus it is immaterial 
which node fails because the loaded "schedule" 
for both paths is available in the field devices and 
is monitored and adhered to without exception. 
Loading of the "schedule" alone is sufficient to 
exclude frames from circulating in this variant: the 
recipient rejects the second (duplicate) frame.
6 .8 Higher Availability through  
 System Redundancy
Higher availability of the system is achieved when 
critical components are doubled. This is why the 
controllers are always designed with redundancy 
and, in most cases, coupled closely to one another 
on a company-specific basis to increase system 
availability. If a controller should fail, the second 
controller takes over operation within a very short 
period of time, usually without interrupting the 
process. For redundant communication between 
the controllers and the devices, PROFINET offers a 
scalable solution (see Figure 28).
S2 redundancy
Simple and easy communication with a redundant 
controller is achieved with S2 redundancy. The 
redundant IO controller is connected at the 
respective end of a PROFINET line. The IO devices 
establish two connections to the redundant 
controller: one to the "left" and one to the "right. " 
One of the connections is active and connects 
the IO device to the active part of the redundant 
controller. If the active connection is interrupted 
or the active IO controller fails, switching to the 
second connection occurs in a very short period of 
time.
PAGE 21
PROFINET System Description 19
R1 redundancy
With R1 redundancy, two PROFINET networks are 
installed. One network is assigned to each part of 
the redundant IO controller. The IO devices feature 
a separate communication interface for each 
network, i.e. their communication interfaces are 
designed for redundancy. To increase availability 
even further, both PROFINET networks can also be 
implemented as MRP rings. This enables the system 
to handle more than one fault, to an extent. 
A combination of S2, R1 and MRP
Using a "Y-switch" , an R1 system can be connected 
to an S2 system. The S2 system can also be an MRP 
ring if necessary. This makes it possible to connect 
IO devices (S2) which do not feature a redundant 
communication interface to an R1 system. 
Additional information on system redundancy 
can be found in the "PN High Availability" [7.242] 
guideline (www.profibus.com/hapn).
6 .9 Calling an Engineering Tool
Complex devices such as drives, laser scanners, etc. 
often have their own tools (engineering software 
and other tools) for changing settings on these IO 
devices. With the Tool Calling Interface (TCI), these 
device tools can now be called directly from the 
engineering system for parameter configuration 
and diagnostics. In this case, the communication 
of PROFINET is used directly to control the settings 
in the field device. In addition to the directly integ-
rated device tools, other technologies such as the 
Electronic Device Description Language (EDDL) 
and the Field Device Tool (FDT) can also be used 
with appropriate adaptation software. TCI consists 
of the following main components:
Call interface: The user can call up various field 
device user interfaces (Device Tools, or DT) from 
the engineering system. Functions are primarily 
initiated in the device tools through user inter -
action.
Communication interface: The TCI communi-
cation server allows the field device user interface 
(DT) to communicate with the field device.
7 . Integration of other 
Communication Systems
7 .1 Integration of Fieldbuses
PROFINET specifies a model for integrating existing 
PROFIBUS systems and other fieldbus systems such 
as INTERBUS and DeviceNet (Figure 29). This means 
that any combination of fieldbus and PROFINET-
based systems can be configured. Thus, a conti-
nuous technology transition from fieldbus-based 
systems to PROFINET is possible. The following 
requirements are taken into consideration here:
• The system owner would like to be able to 
easily integrate existing installations into a new 
PROFINET system to be installed.
• System and machine manufacturers would 
like the ability to use their proven and familiar 
devices for PROFINET automation projects 
without any modifications as well.
• Device manufacturers would like the ability 
to integrate their existing field devices into 
PROFINET systems without the need for costly 
modifications.
Fig. 28: Scalable system redundancy with PROFINET
PAGE 22
PROFINET System Description20
Fig. 29: Integration of fieldbus systems
Fieldbus solutions can be easily and seamlessly 
integrated into a PROFINET system using proxies 
and gateways. The proxy acts as a representative 
of the fieldbus devices. It integrates the nodes 
connected to a lower-level fieldbus system into 
the higher-level PROFINET system. This makes it 
possible to use the features of the fieldbuses in 
the world of PROFINET as well. The devices and 
software tools are also supported in the usual 
manner and integrated into the handling of the 
PROFINET system.
7 .2 Integration of IO-Link
An IO-Link system provides the advantage of 
simple, uniform wiring and a considerably reduced 
variety of interfaces for the connection of sensors/
actuators. This enables consistent communication 
between sensors/actuators and the controller.
IO-Link is a serial, bi-directional point-to-point 
connection for signal transmission and energy 
supply underlying any desired network, such as 
PROFINET (Figure 30).
Fig. 30: Integration of IO-Link
In the configuration of the automation system, the 
IO-Link system is represented by the IO-Link master 
and integrated into the PROFINET system using the 
appropriate device description (e.g. GSD file). The 
IO-Link master itself can be a PROFINET node or part 
of a modular IO system connected to PROFINET. In 
both cases, the number of ports, the address range 
and the module properties are described in the 
device description of the IO-Link master. 
The IO-Link system description provides a compre -
hensive overview and is available as a download 
(www.profibus.com/iolsd).
8 . Application Profiles
By default, PROFINET transfers the specified data 
transparently. It is up to the user to interpret the sent 
or received data in the user program of a PC-based 
solution or Programmable Logic Controller indivi-
dually.
Application profiles are joint specifications 
concerning certain properties, performance 
characteristics and behavior of devices and systems 
developed by manufacturers and users. The term 
"profile" can apply to a few specifications for a parti-
cular device class or a comprehensive set of speci-
fications for applications in a particular industry 
sector.
Application profiles specify the form, i.e. syntax 
and meaning, in which process data and selected 
device parameters and device functions are 
exchanged between the nodes via the communi-
cation system. Application profiles thus describe 
the set of properties which must be implemented 
by "profile-compliant" devices in this class. 
In general, a differentiation is made between two 
groups of application profiles:
General application profiles which can be used 
for different applications (examples of these include 
the PROFIsafe and PROFIenergy profiles).
Specific application profiles which were 
developed in each case only for a specific type 
of application, such as PROFIdrive or devices for 
process automation.
These application profiles are specified by PI based on 
market demand and are available on the PI website  
(www.profibus.com/download/profiles).
PAGE 23
PROFINET System Description 21
8 .1 PROFIsafe
The PROFIsafe designation refers to the protocol 
defined in IEC61784-3-3 for the implementation of 
functional safety (fail-safe) and is recognized by IFA 
and TÜV. PROFIsafe can be used with PROFIBUS and 
PROFINET alike. Fail-safe (F) is the ability to reliably 
protect a system from hazards or to reduce the risk 
to an acceptable level with corresponding technical 
and organizational measures.
The use of PROFIsafe enables elements of a fail-safe 
controller to be transferred directly to standard, 
non-safety-related process data on the same 
network. The need for additional wiring is elimi-
nated.
For PROFIsafe, the transmission channels are merely 
"black channels" as illustrated in Figure 31. 
F-messages between an F-host (safety control) and 
its F-submodules are transported as the payload in 
PROFINET frames. The PROFIsafe protocol spares 
users from having to conduct the safety assessment 
of their individual backplane bus system and other 
channels beyond PROFINET. It thus guarantees the 
functional safety of the complete path, from the 
sender of an F-signal (e.g. F-submodule in a remote 
bus terminal) to the receiver (F-host) and vice versa. 
This is achieved through additional safety measures 
of the F-messages.
The measures include: consecutive numbering 
of F-messages ("sign-of-life"), a time expectation 
with acknowledgment ("watchdog"), an identifier 
between sender and recipient ("F-address") and a 
data integrity check (Cyclic Redundancy Check, or 
CRC).
Fig. 31: The "black channel" principle
An introduction to PROFIsafe can be found 
in the "PROFIsafe System Description" 
[4.341], which is available as a free download  
(www.profibus.com/pssd).
The specification for PROFIsafe [3.192] is 
available as a free download for members 
(www.profibus.com/download/profisafe).
8 .2 PROFIdrive
The PROFIdrive designation refers to the speci-
fication of a standardized drive interface for 
PROFIBUS and PROFINET. This application-oriented 
profile, which has been standardized in IEC 
61800-7, contains standard definitions (syntax and 
semantics) for the communication between drives 
and automation systems, thus assuring manufac -
turer independence (Figure 32), interoperability, 
investment protection and simplified commissi-
oning.
Fig. 32: Interoperability through PROFIdrive
The PROFIdrive application profile provides the 
foundation for many drive tasks in the field of indus-
trial automation engineering. It defines the device 
behavior and the procedure for accessing the drive 
data of electric drives and also optimally integrates 
the additional PROFIsafe and PROFIenergy profiles.
An introduction to PROFIdrive can be found 
in the "PROFIdrive System Description" 
[4.321], which is available as a free download  
(www.profibus.com/pdsd).
The specification is available under [3.172] 
and is offered as a download for members  
(www.profibus.com/pdpdt).
8 .3 PROFIenergy
The high cost of energy and compliance with legal 
obligations are compelling the industry to engage 
in energy conservation. Recent trends toward the 
use of efficient drives and optimized production 
processes have been accompanied by significant 
energy savings. However, in today's systems and 
production units, it is common for numerous energy 
consuming loads to continue running during 
pauses. PROFIenergy addresses this situation.
PAGE 24
PROFINET System Description22
PROFIenergy enables active and effective energy 
management. By purposefully switching off  
unneeded consumers, energy demand and thus 
energy costs can be significantly reduced. PROFINET 
nodes in which PROFIenergy functionality is imple-
mented can use the commands to react flexibly 
to idle times. In this way, individual devices or 
unneeded portions of a machine can be shut down 
during short pauses, while a whole system can 
be shut down in an orderly manner during long 
pauses. Using PROFIenergy, it is also possible to 
measure and optimize the energy consumption of 
production (reading out energy values). The speci-
fication for PROFIenergy is available under [3.802]. 
Members can obtain it directly as a download  
(www.profibus.com/download/profienergy).
9 . PROFINET for Process 
Automation
Compared to factory automation, process 
automation has a few special characteristics which 
significantly influence the use of automation.
Extra-long service life:
Systems can have a service life of many decades. 
This results in system owners' demanding the 
functional coexistence of older and newer techno -
logies and for consistent technology transitions for 
the integration of existing devices. Consistency is 
also based on the existing engineering, diagnostics 
and maintenance tools.
Extreme reliability:
In addition, requirements for the reliability of 
process systems, particularly in continuous 
processes, are often considerably greater than in 
production systems. In classical applications in 
the process industry, system standstills can lead to 
considerable disruptions and downtimes and lead 
to damage to systems or the environment.
Figure 33 shows an example of the solution options 
for the process industry.
Powerful gateways enable the consistent integ-
ration of PROFIBUS DP and PROFIBUS PA fieldbuses 
and the existing development of the wide product 
spectrum available there. Communication includes 
the exchange of cyclic and acyclic data, the integ-
ration and parameter configuration of the devices, 
diagnostics and maintenance. 
Available devices with 4 – 20 mA or HART interfaces 
can communicate using corresponding remote IO 
systems over PROFNET. 
Devices in hazardous zones can also be integrated 
in these ways.
Field devices in the process industry without 
explosion-prevention requirements are increa-
singly being networked directly via PROFINET. This 
applies in particular for devices with high data 
volumes or short response times. 
Solutions are in development to use Ethernet 
(Advanced Physical Layer or APL) for the limited-
energy bus feed of devices in hazardous areas 
(Zone 1).
Fig. 33: PROFINET in process automation

PAGE 25
PROFINET System Description 23
The reliability of the system is achieved through 
redundancy solutions extending from simple media 
redundancy to complete system redundancy, 
depending on the process-technical requirements. 
A white paper in which the current and 
future technological developments are 
described is available for PROFINET in process 
automation. It is available as a download  
(www.profibus.com/pnipa).
The PA profile for PROFINET specifies typical 
functions of process control devices and is 
available as a free download for members 
(www.profibus.com/pcd).
10 . Network Installation
PROFINET is based on a 100 Mbps, full-duplex 
Ethernet network. Faster communication is also 
possible on all transmission sections (e.g. between 
switches, PC systems and camera systems).
PROFINET defines not only functionality, but the 
passive infrastructure components (cabling and 
connectors) as well. Communication may take 
place via copper or fiber-optic cables. In a confor -
mance Class A (CC-A) network, communication is 
also allowed over wireless transmission systems 
(Bluetooth and WLAN) (Table 4).
The cabling guideline defines 2-pair cabling 
according to IEC 61784-5-3 for all Conformance 
Classes. For transmission systems with Gigabit 
cabling requirements, 4-pair cabling may also be 
used.
For a CC-A network, complete networking with 
active and passive components according to ISO/
IEC11801 is allowed, taking the CC-A cabling 
guideline into consideration. Likewise, active infra-
structure components (e.g. switches) according to 
IEEE 801.x can be used if they support the VLAN tag 
with prioritization.
Easy-to-understand and systematically struc -
tured instructions have been prepared to enable 
problem-free planning, installation and commis-
sioning of PROFINET networks: [8.061], [8.071] 
and [8.081]. These are available to any interested 
party on the PI website. These manuals should be 
consulted for further information (www.profibus.
com/pnig).
10 .1 Network Configuration
PROFINET field devices are always connected as 
network components via switches. Switches integ-
rated in the field device are typically used for this. 
Using an integrated switch, the field device can 
make two (or more) ports available externally. 
This makes devices like this ideal for line, star, tree 
and ring structures. PROFINET-suitable switches 
must support "auto negotiation" (negotiation of 
transmission parameters) and "auto crossover" 
(autonomous crossing of send and receive lines). 
As a result, communication can be established 
automatically and fabrication of the transmission 
cable is uniform: 1:1 wired cables can be used 
throughout.
In addition, the switches must support VLAN 
tagging with prioritization. 
VLAN tagging with prioritization is the basis for 
reliable RT communication in PROFINET networks. 
Network cabling and infrastructure  
components
Solution Conformance 
Class
Passive network components (connectors 
and cables)
RJ45, M12 and M8 A, B and C
Copper and fiber-optic transmission systems TX, FX and LX A, B and C
Wireless connections WLAN and Bluetooth A
IT switch With VLAN tag according to IEEE 802.x A
Switch with device function PROFINET with RT B
Switch with device function and bandwidth 
reservation
PROFINET with IRT C
Tab. 4: Network installation for different Conformance Classes
PAGE 26
PROFINET System Description24
PROFINET supports the following topologies for 
Ethernet communication:
• Line topology, which primarily connects 
terminals with integrated switches in the field 
(Figure 34).
• Star topology, which requires a central switch 
located preferably in the control cabinet.
• Ring topology, in which a line is closed to form 
a ring in order to achieve media redundancy.
• Tree topology, in which the topologies 
mentioned above are combined.
10 .2 Cables for PROFINET 
The maximum segment length for electrical data 
transmission with copper cables between two 
nodes (field devices or switches) is 100 m. The 
copper cables are implemented uniformly in AWG 
22. The installation guideline defines different cable 
types that have been optimally adapted to their 
respective industrial applications. Sufficient system 
reserves allows installations that are suitable for 
industraial use with no limitation on transmission 
distance.
PROFINET cables types conform to the cable types 
required in industry:
PROFINET type A: Standard permanently-routed 
cable, no movement after installation
PROFINET type B: Standard flexible cable, 
occasional movement or vibration
PROFINET type C: Special applications: Highly-
flexible, constant movement (tow-chain or torsion, 
for example)
PROFINET type R: Robot applications, tested speci-
fically for this application
Fiber-optic data transmission with fiber-optic 
cable has several advantages over copper:
• Electrical isolation when equipotential bonding 
is difficult to achieve
• Immunity against extreme Electromagnetic 
Compatibility (EMC) disturbances
• Transmission over distances of up to several 
kilometers without using repeaters
For short distances, the use of 1 mm Polymer Optic 
Fibers (POF) is supported, the handling of which 
conforms optimally to industrial applications.
10 .3 Connectors
Connectors are classified based on their degree 
of environmental protection. They have been 
subdivided into one class for use inside protected 
environments, such as in a control cabinet, and one 
class for use outside of control cabinets such as 
those located directly in the field (Figure 35).
The selection of suitable PROFINET plug connectors 
is dependent upon the application. If the emphasis 
is on a universal network which is to be office-
compatible, electrical data transmission occurs via 
RJ 45, which is prescribed universally for ‘inside’ 
environmental conditions. For ‘outside’ environ-
ments, a push-pull plug connector also fitted with 
the RJ 45 connector for electrical data transmission 
has been developed. M12 and M8 variants are also 
specified for PROFINET. 
For optical data transmission with Polymer Optic 
Fibers, the SCRJ plug connector based on the SC 
plug connector is specified. The SCRJ is used both 
for inside environments as well as in combination 
with a push-pull housing for use in outside environ-
ments.
At the same time, plug connectors are also specified 
for the power supply, depending on the topology 
and the supply voltage. Besides the push-pull plug 
connector, a 7/8" plug connector, a hybrid plug 
connector, an M12 A or an M12 L plug connector can 
be used. The differences between these connectors 
lie in their connectible cross sections and thus their 
maximum amperages.
Fig. 34: Ethernet networks in industrial environments usually have line topology
PAGE 27
PROFINET System Description 25
Detailed information on PROFINET plugs can 
be found in the "PROFINET Cabling and Inter -
connection Technology" guideline available for 
download (www.profibus.com/pncit).
10 .4 Security
For networking within a larger production facility 
or over the Internet, PROFINET relies on a layered 
security concept. This recommends a security 
concept optimized for the specific application 
case, with one or more upstream security zones 
(see Figure 36). On the one hand, this unburdens 
the PROFINET devices, and on the other, it allows 
the security concept to be optimized to changing 
security requirements in a consistent automation 
engineering solution.
Fig. 36: Security concept with multiple security 
zones
The security concept provides for the protection of 
both individual devices as well as whole networks 
from unauthorized access. In addition, there are 
security modules that will allow networks to be 
segmented and thus also separated and protected 
from a safety standpoint. Only explicitly identified 
and authorized messages reach the devices located 
inside such segments from the outside. Additional 
information regarding security can be found in the 
"PROFINET Security Guideline" [7.002], which is 
available for download (www.profibus.com/pnsg).
11 . PROFINET Technology 
and Certification
PROFINET is standardized in IEC 61158 and IEC 
61784-2. It enables devices in industrial systems to 
be networked together and exchange their data 
with one another in a standardized way. Approp -
riate quality assurance measures are required to 
ensure interoperability in automation systems. 
For this reason, PI has established a certification 
process for PROFINET devices in which certificates 
are issued based on test reports from accredited 
test labs. While PI certification of a field device is 
not yet required for PROFIBUS, the guidelines for 
PROFINET have changed such that any field device 
bearing the name PROFINET must be certified. 
Since 1990, experience with PROFIBUS has shown 
that a very high-quality standard is needed in order 
to protect automation systems as well as system 
owners and field device manufacturers.
Fig. 35: PROFINET offers a range of industrial plug connectors
PAGE 28
PROFINET System Description26
11 .1 Technology Support
Device manufacturers who wish to develop an 
interface for PROFINET can develop field devices 
based on existing Ethernet controllers. Alternatively, 
member companies of PI offer many options for 
efficient implementation of a PROFINET interface. 
To make development easier for device manufac -
turers, PI Competence Centers and member 
companies offer PROFINET base technology 
(enabling technology). Consulting services and 
special developer training programs are also 
available. Before starting a PROFINET development 
project, device manufacturers should always 
perform an analysis to determine whether internal 
development of a PROFINET device is cost-effective 
or whether the use of a ready-made communi-
cation module will satisfy their requirements.
More detailed information on this topic can be 
found in the "PROFINET Technology – The Easy Way 
to PROFINET" [4.271] (www.profibus.com/pntb )  
and "PROFINET Field Devices – Recommendations 
for Design and Implementation" [8.201] (www.
profibus.com/pnfd) brochures , which can be 
downloaded from the PI website.
Targeted information on implementation is also 
available here: www.profibus.com/pni.
11 .2 Tools for Product Development
Software tools are made available to device 
manufacturers for the development and checking 
of their products. A GSDML editor assists the 
manufacturer when creating the GSD file for its 
product. With this GSDML editor, these files can be 
created properly and checked.
For PROFINET, free of charge test bundle with 
test descriptions and testing tools is available 
for PI members. This same test bundle is used by 
the test labs for certification testing as well. Visit:  
www.profibus.com/certification).
11 .3 Certification Test
Accredited PI Test Labs perform the largely 
automated certification test to all manufacturers. 
Test experts at PI Test Labs are available to provide 
support in carrying out tests and evaluating the 
results. The test scope is described in a test speci-
fication. The tests are implemented as so-called 
black box tests in which the tester acts as a real 
application.
The defined test cases developed for use during 
a certification test are real world-oriented and are 
based on industrial automation. This affords all 
users the maximum possible assurance for use of 
the field device in a system from the beginning. 
PI awards the PROFINET certificate to the manufac -
turer based on the test report from an accredited 
PI Test Labs. A product must have this certificate 
in order use the PROFINET designation. For the 
system manufacturer/operator, the use of certified 
products means time savings during commissi-
oning and stable behavior for the entire service 
life. For this reason, end-users are encouraged to 
request certificates from their suppliers for the 
field devices used in accordance with the utilized 
Conformance Class, application class and profiles.
12 . Standardization
The PROFINET concept was defined in close collabo-
ration with end-users based on standard Ethernet 
according to IEEE 802 in IEC 61158 and IEC 61784. 
Figure 37 lists additional specifications of other 
functionalities in the form of different joint profiles. 
These form the basis for device- and application-
specific profiles. Instructions are then created for 
the necessary planning, engineering and commissi-
oning steps. The bases of these form the guidelines 
used in the engineering of PROFINET systems.
13 . PROFIBUS & PROFINET 
International (PI)
As far as maintenance, ongoing development and 
market penetration are concerned, open techno -
logies need a company-independent institution 
which can serve as a working platform. This was 
achieved for the PROFIBUS and PROFINET techno -
logies through the founding of the PROFIBUS 
Nutzerorganisation e.V. (PNO) in 1989 as a non-profit 
interest group for manufacturers, users and insti-
tutions. The PNO is a member of PI (PROFIBUS & 
PROFINET International), an umbrella group which 
was founded in 1995. With its 25 Regional PI Associ-
ations (RPA) and approximately 1,400 members, PI 
is represented on every continent and is the world’s 
largest interest group in the field of industrial 
communication (Figure 38).
PAGE 29
PROFINET System Description 27
Fig. 38: PROFIBUS & PROFINET International (PI)
The key tasks performed by PI are:
• Maintenance and ongoing development of 
PROFIBUS and PROFINET
• Promotion of the worldwide use of PROFIBUS 
and PROFINET
• Protection of investment for users and 
manufacturers by influencing the development 
of standards
• Representation of the interests of members to 
standards bodies and unions
• Worldwide technical support of companies 
through PI Competence Centers (PICC)
• Quality assurance through product certifi-
cation based on conformity tests at PI Test Labs 
(PITL)
• Establishment of a worldwide training standard 
through PI Training Centers (PITC)
Technology development
PI has handed responsibility for technology 
development over to PNO Germany. The advisory 
board of PNO Germany oversees development 
activities. Technology development takes place 
in the context of more than 40 Working Groups 
(WG) with input from approximately 1,000 experts, 
mostly from engineering departments of member 
companies.
Technical support
PI supports more than 60 accredited PI Compe -
tence Centers (PICC) worldwide. These facilities 
provide users and manufacturers with various 
types of advice and support. As institutions under 
PI, they are independent service providers and 
adhere to mutually agreed-upon rules. PICCs are 
regularly checked for their suitability as part of an 
individually tailored accreditation process. Contact 
information for each can be found on the website.
Certification
PI supports approximately. 10 accredited PI Test 
Labs (PITL) worldwide, which assist in the certi-
fication of products with a PROFIBUS/PROFINET 
interface. As institutions under PI, they are manufac-
turer independent test service providers and 
adhere to mutually agreed-upon rules. The testing 
services provided by the PITLs are regularly audited 
in accordance with a strict accreditation process to 
ensure that they meet the necessary quality requi-
rements. Contact information for each can be found 
on the website.
Training
More than 30 PI Training Centers have been set 
up with the aim of establishing a global training 
standard for engineers and technicians. Accre -
ditation of the Training Centers and the experts 
Fig. 37: Structure of standards
PAGE 30
PROFINET System Description28
based there ensures the quality of the training 
and thus the quality of the engineering and instal-
lation services for PROFIBUS and PROFINET. Current 
addresses can be found on the website.
Internet
Current information on PI and the PROFIBUS and 
PROFINET technologies is available on the PI 
website www.profibus.com or www.profinet.com 
. This includes, for example, an online product 
finder, a glossary, a variety of web-based training 
content and the download area containing speci-
fications, profiles, installation guidelines and other 
documents. 
14 . Outlook
Current further developments in industrial 
automation are predominantly engaged with the 
topic of Industrie 4.0. This primarily concerns indus-
trial communication, as IT networks and automation 
networks are increasingly merging. Two important 
building blocks for Industrie 4.0 are TSN and  
OPC UA. 
14 .1 Time-Sensitive Networking (TSN)
The goal of TSN is the provision of means for 
implementing real-time-capable Ethernet. While 
PROFINET was developed for automation, TSN 
targets a larger area of application and is fully 
specified in the IEEE 802 organization, which is 
relevant for Ethernet. Future areas of application 
will include audio/video streaming and real-time 
networks in the automotive field and in industrial 
systems. TSN is comprised of many individual IEEE 
standards, not all of which are required for a TSN 
network. To define a TSN profile for optimal use 
in industrial plants, the IEC an IEEE hafe formed a 
Joint Working Group with the aim of publishing it 
as standard IEC/IEEE 60802.
To achieve open, real-time-capable Ethernet, TSN 
uses principles comparable to those with IRT:
• High-precision time synchronization
• Processing of communication in cycles
• Division of communication cycles into a 
real-time phase and a phase for the remaining 
traffic
• Communication planning
• Consideration of alternate communication 
paths
Detailed information on TSN is available on the IEEE 
website: https://1.ieee802.org/tsn/.
14 .2 Open Platform Communications  
 Unified Architecture (OPC UA)
OPC is a standardized interface for data exchange 
between different technological systems in indus-
trial networks and is based on the client/server 
principle. An OPC client requests data from an OPC 
server and provides it to its application. The OPC 
server receives data and maps it to OPC objects 
(see Figure 39). OPC drivers for the various different 
communication methods used in the automation 
system mask those differences below the OPC 
server. 
Fig. 39: OPC enables uniform communication 
with different systems 
The latest specification for OPC is OPC Unified 
Architecture (OPC UA). As opposed to the OPC 
Classic specification, it is platform-independent. 
With OPC UA, the transmission of machine data, 
interfaces, security mechanisms and the semantic 
structure of data are described. OPC UA uses a 
service-oriented, Internet-friendly architecture.
For Industrie 4.0 and the interaction with TSN, 
expansions were made to OPC UA to enable a 
publish/subscribe mechanism, for example.
OPC UA is described in a series of IEC standards. 
The coordination and further development 
of these standards occur at the OPC Found-
ation. Detailed information on OPC UA can 
be found on the OPC Foundation website:  
https://opcfoundation.org.
14 .3 Industrie 4 .0
With Industrie 4.0, the digitalization of indus-
trial production is to be improved through the 
use of the latest communication technologies. 
Intelligently networked systems are to enable 
production which is as self-organizing as possible. 
In addition, networking is to allow the entire life 
cycle of a product to be recorded, from the initial 
idea to development, production, maintenance 
and recycling. The basis for this is internatio -
nally standardized communication technologies, 
PAGE 31
PROFINET System Description 29
interfaces and object descriptions. The networking 
of machines, devices, sensors, actuators and people 
is of great importance. 
To ensure standardized communication among 
machines and with higher-level systems and cloud 
services, uniform international communication 
standards are required. OPC UA and TSN are two 
building blocks for achieving this goal. 
14 .4 The Procedure of PI
TSN and PROFINET
PI is currently working on the use of TSN for 
PROFINET. The advantages:
• Use of future-proof IEEE technology with data 
rates from 10 Mbps to 10 Gbps
• Scalable integration
• User interaction remains unchanged
• Network convergence through support of 
the IEC/IEEE 60802 TSN industrial automation 
profile
Based on the ISO/OSI model, an additional real-
time-capable foundation is provided by the TSN 
extensions to Ethernet, which can be used by the 
protocol layers above. Thus, the PROFINET stack can 
also use TSN as its foundation. This is why the tried-
and-tested PROFINET user view of data, parameter 
configuration, diagnostics and profiles such as 
PROFIsafe and PROFIdrive can be used without 
modification (see Figure 40).
Fig. 40: TSN integration in PROFINET
OPC UA and PROFINET
Thanks to its open system structure, OPC UA and 
PROFINET can use the same network and form an 
ideal combination for Industrie 4.0. Typical applica-
tions include:
• Provisioning asset management and diagnostic 
information
• Controller-to-controller communication
• Vertical communication
• Linking to cloud services
The required information is presented using the 
objects defined in the OPC UA standard and can be 
used by any manufacturer (see Figure 41).
Fig. 41: PROFINET and OPC UA
Furthermore, PI is leveraging its application profiles 
in its joint working group with the OPC Foundation 
with the aim of creating open information models. 
These can be made easily available to IT systems 
via OPC UA. PI’s application expertise is resulting 
in the development of companion specifications 
for OPC UA. Companion specifications describe 
the data objects and sequences for certain areas 
of application, comparable to the application 
profile definitions. The first companion specifica-
tions describe the mapping of the diagnostic and 
asset management information and deal with the 
topic of PROFIsafe over OPC UA for controller-to-
controller communication. 
Additional information on Industrie 4.0 and the 
procedure used by PI can be found on the PI website 
(www.profibus.com/i40):
PAGE 32
PROFINET System DescriptionIV
15 . Glossary
Abbreviations used in this document:
AMR   Asset Management Record
APL  Advanced Physical Layer
API  Application Process Identifier/Instance
AR  Application Relation
ASIC   Application-specific integrated circuit
CC   Conformance Class
CR  Communication Relations
DAP   Device access point
DFP  Dynamic Frame Packing
DR  Dynamic Reconfiguration
DT  Device Tool
EDDL  Electronic device description language
EMC  Electromagnetic compatibility
F   Fail-safe
FDT  Field Device Tool
FSU  Fast Start Up
gPTP   Generalized Precision Time Protocol
GSD   General Station Description
GSDML   GSD Markup Language
IEEE   Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers
IEC   International Electrotechnical Commission
IO controller  Controller in which the automation program runs
IO device  Decentralized field device
IO-Link  Communication standard for actuators and sensors
IO supervisor PC/PG for commissioning and diagnostic purposes
IP codes  International Protection codes
IP20   Protected against solid foreign objects with diameter of 12.5 mm or more
IP65   Protected from dust and water jets
IP67   Protected from dust and temporary immersion
IRT   Isochronous Real-Time
IT  Information Technology
I&M   Identification and Maintenance
LC  Lucent Connector
LLDP  Link Layer Discovery Protocol
FOC   Fiber-Optic Cable
MAC   Media Access Control
M12   Circular connector with metric thread
MRP  Media Redundancy Protocol
MRPD  Media Redundancy for Planned Duplication
OPC  Open Platform Communication
OPC UA  OPC Unified Architecture
PAGE 33
PROFINET System Description V
OUI  Organizationally Unique Identifier
PC   Personal computer
PDEV   Physical Device
PG  Programming device
PI   PROFIBUS & PROFINET International
PICC   PI Competence Center
PITL   PI Test Lab
PNO   PROFIBUS Nutzerorganisation e.V. (www.profibus.de)
POF   Polymer Optical Fibers
RJ   Registered jack (standardized socket)
RJ45   Standardized connector for Ethernet
RPA   Regional PI Association
SCRJ   Connector for FOC transmission
SIL   Safety Integrity Level
SNMP   Simple Network Management Protocol
SoE   Sequence of Events
PLC   Programmable Logic Controller
TCI  Tool Calling Interface
TCP/IP  Transmission Control Protocol/Internet protocol
TSN  Time-Sensitive Networking 
VLAN  Virtual Local Area Network
WG   Working Group
XML   Extensible Markup Language
PAGE 34
PROFINET System DescriptionVI
16 . References
This system description is based on the PI documents listed below, which can be downloaded from the PI 
website (some of these documents are only free of charge for members). In addition, useful manuals for 
system planners and owners are also listed. The materials can also be ordered through the following link: 
www.profibus.com/orderform.
PROFINET Installation Guidelines:
[8.061] PROFINET Design Guideline
[8.071] PROFINET Guideline for Cabling and Assembly
[8.081] PROFINET Guideline for Commissioning
 www.profibus.com/download/profinet-installation-guidelines/
System descriptions, guidelines and recommendations from PI:
[4.321] PROFIdrive Technology and Application - System Description
 www.profibus.com/pdsd
[4.341] PROFIsafe Technology and Application - System Description
 www.profibus.com/pssd
[4.271] The easy Way to PROFINET Technology
 www.profibus.com/pntb
[7.002] PROFINET Security Guideline
 www.profibus.com/pnsg
[7.041] PROFINET IO Conformance Classes, Guideline for PROFINET IO
 www.profibus.com/pncc
[7.242] High Availibility for PROFINET
 www.profibus.com/hapn
[7.142] Diagnosis for PROFINET, Guideline for PROFINET
 www.profibus.com/dpn
[7.162] Fiber Optic Diagnosis, Guideline for PROFINET
 www.profibus.com/download/fiber-optic-diagnosis
[7.172] PROFINET IRT Engineering, Guideline for PROFINET
 www.profibus.com/pnirt
[7.182] Topology and Asset Discovery for PROFINET, Guideline for PROFINET
 www.profibus.com/download/topology-and-asset-discovery-for-profinet/
[8.201] PROFINET Field Devices, Recommendations for Design and Implementation
 www.profibus.com/pnfd
[10.391] IO-Link Technology and Application - System Description
 www.profibus.com/iolsd
[2.252] PROFINET Cabling and Interconnection Technology
 www.profibus.com/pncit
Profile secification:
[3.172] PROFIdrive - Profile Drive Technology
 www.profibus.com/pdpdt
[3.192] PROFIsafe 
 www.profibus.com/download/profisafe
[3.502] Profile Guidelines Part 1: Identification & Maintenance Functions
 www.profibus.com/imf
[3.802] PROFIenergy
 www.profibus.com/download/profienergy
[3.042] Process Control Devices
 www.profibus.com/pcd
PAGE 35
PROFINET System Description  
Technology and Application
Version November 2018 
Order Number 4.132
Publisher:
PROFIBUS Nutzerorganisation e. V. (PNO)
PROFIBUS & PROFINET International (PI)
Ohiostraße 8 ·  76149 Karlsruhe  ·  Germany
Phone: +49 721 986 197 0  ·  Fax: +49 721 98 61 97 11 
E-Mail:  info@profibus.com
www.profibus.com  ·  www.profinet.com
Exclusion of Liability
Although the PROFIBUS Nutzerorganisation e.V. (PNO) has taken the most care in compiling the 
information contained in this brochure, it cannot guarantee that the content is completely error-free, 
and the PROFIBUS Nutzerorganisation e.V. (PNO) can assume no liability, regardless of the legal basis 
for any potential claims. The information in this brochure is reviewed on a regular basis. Any necessary 
corrections will be made in subsequent editions. We would be grateful for any suggestions as to how 
the content could be improved.
 
Any designations that appear in this brochure could potentially constitute trademarks. Any use of such 
trademarks by third parties for their own ends risks infringing the rights of the proprietors concerned.
 
This brochure is not intended to serve as a substitute for the relevant IEC standards, such as IEC 61158 
and IEC 61784, or the relevant specifications and guidelines of PROFIBUS & PROFINET International. In 
case of doubt, these standards, specifications, and guidelines are authoritative.
© Copyright by PROFIBUS Nutzerorganisation e.V. (PNO) 2018. All rights reserved.
PAGE 36
PROFIBUS Nutzerorganisation e. V. (PNO)
PROFIBUS & PROFINET International (PI)
Ohiostraße 8  ·  76149 Karlsruhe  ·  Germany
Phone:  +49 721 986 197 0  ·  Fax:  +49 721 98 61 97 11
E-Mail:  info@profibus.com
www.profibus.com  ·  www.profinet.com
© Copyright by PI 11/18 – all rights reserved – 4.132
For additional information go to:  
www.profinet.com
