PDF_PAGE 46
IRT
PROFINET IRT uses a time slot procedure (bandwidth reservation); i.e. 2 time slots occur. The IRT 
telegrams are transmitted in the first time slot; the standard Ethernet and RT telegrams in the 
second. By reserving the transmission bandwidth, the transmission of the IRT data is guaranteed 
for all load/overload situations. For all participating devices to know when the time slot begins, 
all the participating devices must be synchronized with PROFINET IRT.
In addition to the bandwidth reservation, a schedule for the cyclic telegrams is developed 
with consideration given to the topology. This makes it possible for the engineering system 
to determine the required bandwidth for each individual cable.
In addition to the synchronization of the transmission network with PROFINET IRT, the 
application can also be synchronized in the devices with IRT High Performance (isochronous 
application; e.g. position controller in SIMOTION or ServoSynchronousTask). This is an 
essential requirement for closing control loops across the network and isochronous switching 
of inputs and outputs in the network.
Note
Only PROFINET IRT High Performance is used for SIMOTION. Whenever PROFINET IRT is referred 
to in the rest of this document, this means IRT High Performance.
For more detailed information, see PROFINET IO with IRT (High Performance) (Page 51).
Comparing RT and IRT
Table 5-1 The major differences between RT and IRT
Property RT IRT (High Performance)
Real-time class Real-time class 1 Real-time class 3
Transfer mode Prioritization of cyclic RT telegrams using 
the so-called VLAN tag.
Bandwidth reservation optimized by the engineering 
system on the basis of topology information
Determinism No
Send and receive time points of the cy‐
clical RT data are not precise; they can be 
delayed by standard Ethernet telegrams.
Yes
Transmission and receiving times for cyclic IRT data 
are precisely defined and guaranteed for all kinds of 
topologies.
Isochronous application Not supported Supported
Hardware support using 
special Ethernet controller
No Special hardware necessary
(e.g. SCALANCE X200 IRT)
5.1.7.2 Send clock and update time
Description
With PROFINET the send clock and update time are distinguished. The send clock is the basic 
cycle clock for cyclic communication. The update time indicates the cycle in which a device is 
supplied with data.
PROFINET IO
5.1 PROFINET IO overview
Communication
46 System Manual, 04/2023, A5E33436509B
PDF_PAGE 47
Send clock
This is the period between two successive intervals for IRT or RT communication. The send clock 
is the shortest possible transmit interval for exchanging data. The send clock therefore 
corresponds to the shortest possible update time. During this time, IRT data and non-IRT data 
(RT, TCP/IP) is transmitted. All devices within a sync domain work with the same send clock.
Update time
The update time can be configured separately for each IO device and determines the interval at 
which data is sent from the IO controller to the IO device (outputs) as well as from the IO device 
to the IO controller (inputs). The calculated/configured update times are always a multiple (2n) 
of the send clock.
Relationship between the update time and send clock
The calculated update times are multiples (1, 2, 4, 8, ..., 512) of the send clock. The minimum 
possible update time thus depends on the minimum send clock for the IO controller that can be 
set and the efficiency of the IO controller and the IO device. 
5.1.7.3 Adjustable send clocks and update times
Description
The table below describes the send clocks which can be set for SIMOTION devices with PROFINET 
IO, as well as the settable update times which are dependent on them and can be set for IRT and 
RT. Update times are obtained by multiplying the factor and the send clock. The adjustable send 
clocks are divided into two ranges: the "even" range and the "odd" range.
Note
The following versions generally relate to the use of the position control cycle clock with servo 
or IPO task, unless otherwise specified. When using the Servo_fast with Servo_fast or IPO_fast 
Task, other restrictions apply under certain circumstances. If Servo_fast and IPO_fast are used, 
then the PROFINET must be operated isochronously.
Table 5-2 Adjustable send clocks and update times when using servo or Servo_fast
Send clock Factors (update time = factor * send clock)
RT IRT
"Even" range  125 µs Note 4) IO devices cannot be used with RT 1 Note 2)
250, 500, 1,000 µs 1, 2, 4, 8, 16, 32, 64, 128, 256, 512
2,000 µs 1, 2, 4, 8, 16, 32, 64, 128, 256
4,000 µs 1, 2, 4, 8, 16, 32, 64, 128
"Odd" range 375, 625, 750, 875, 1,125, 1,250 
µs ... 3,875 µs
(increment 125 µs)
Cannot be used in front of SIMOTION V4.4 IO 
devices with RT Note 1)
1
PROFINET IO
5.1 PROFINET IO overview
Communication
System Manual, 04/2023, A5E33436509B 47
PDF_PAGE 48
Send clock Factors (update time = factor * send clock)
RT IRT
Note 1) Mixed operation RT / IRT with SIMOTION < V4.4
Send cycles from the "odd" range can be used only if there is no IO device in the IO systems involved 
in the sync domain. As soon as there are IO devices with RT in a sync domain, it is only possible to set 
send clocks from the "even" range.
Note 2) Settable factors and isochronous operation (isochronous application)
Some IO devices with IRT support the factors 2, 4, 8, and 16 in addition to factor 1.
Where IO devices (e.g. ET200S IM151-3 PN HS, SINAMICS S120) are operated isochronously, it is 
usually only possible to set a factor of 1. In these cases, the mode for the update time must always be 
set to Fixed factor to ensure STEP 7 does not automatically adapt the update time. The update time 
than always matches the send clock.
Note 3) Mixed operation RT / IRT as of SIMOTION V4.4
As of SIMOTION V4.4, send cycles from the "odd" range can be used only if there is no IO device with 
RT in the PROFINET IO systems involved in the sync domain. However, this mixed operation is only 
possible with SIMOTION D4x5-2 devices on the onboard PROFINET interface. The same factors are 
available as from the "even" range. The factors that can actually be set depends specifically on the set 
send clock. 
Restriction of Shared Device with RT / IRT as of SIMOTION V4.4:
If a Shared Device is simultaneously used with PROFINET IO with RT and PROFINET IO with IRT, PRO‐
FINET IO with IRT can only be operated with send clocks from the "even" range.
Note 4) The send clock can only be used with D455-2 DP/PN on the onboard PROFINET interface together with 
Servo_fast as of SIMOTION V4.4. If this send clock is used, only the first port of the onboard PROFINET 
interface will be active, all other ports are deactivated and cannot be used.
If there is no sync master configured in a PROFINET IO system (no PROFINET IRT), the send 
cycle clock for the respective PROFINET IO system can be set individually on the relevant IO 
controller. You can do this in the properties <PROFINET Interface> on the PROFINET tab 
under Send cycle or in the properties PROFINET IO System on the Update time tab. There 
is a default setting for the send clock of 1 ms. On the IO cycle tab, the down-scaling for the 
update time can be set via the mode fixed factor or fixed update time and the factor.
As soon as a sync master is configured in the PROFINET IO system, the send clock is defined 
under the sync domain properties. The IO controllers assigned to the sync domain take over 
this value. Update times can be set independently for each IO device.
PROFINET IO
5.1 PROFINET IO overview
Communication
48 System Manual, 04/2023, A5E33436509B
PDF_PAGE 49
Possible modes for setting the update time
• Fixed factor
Fixed send clock down-scaling for the update time
• Fixed update time
Update time is set
• Automatic
STEP 7 automatically adjusts the down-scaling if the factor selected is too low
Note
It is recommended that you work with the Fixed factor setting.
Figure 5-2 The influence of isochronous mode on setting the update time
5.1.7.4 PROFINET IO with RT
PROFINET IO with RT is the optimal solution for the integration of I/O systems without particular 
requirements in terms of performance and isochronous mode. This is a solution that uses 
standard Ethernet and commercially available industrial switches as infrastructure components. 
A special hardware support is not required.  
PROFINET IO
5.1 PROFINET IO overview
Communication
System Manual, 04/2023, A5E33436509B 49
PDF_PAGE 50
Not isochronous
Although standard Ethernet and PROFINET IO with RT do not offer any synchronization 
mechanisms for devices, this does not mean that such arrangements are impossible. However, 
it does mean that isochronous data transmission is impossible, and there is no isochronous 
application for motion control as a result.
Data exchange
Communication via PROFINET IO with RT and IRT is based on the Ethernet frame and the MAC 
address. This means that cross-network communication via a router using RT and IRT is not 
possible. PROFINET IO message frames have priority over IT message frames in accordance with 
IEEE802.1Q. This ensures the availability of the real-time properties required in automation 
applications (e.g. for standard IOs).
Update time
The adjustable update time is in the range of 0.25 - 512 ms. The selected update time depends 
on the process requirements, the number of devices, and the amount of IO data. Given the 
improved performance offered by PROFINET compared to field buses, the bus cycle is generally 
no longer the variable which determines the system cycle. 
Device replacement without removable data storage medium
Activate the "Support device replacement without removable data storage medium" checkbox 
if you want to use the module replacement (the devices connected to the IO controller) without 
the PG or removable data storage medium. 
The IO device replacement is no longer assigned a device name from the removable data 
storage medium or the PG, but from the IO controller. The IO controller uses the configured 
topology and the neighboring relationships determined by the IO devices for this purpose.  
Note
Device replacement without removable data storage medium
In order that the device replacement without removable data storage medium functions, the 
plant topology must be configured correctly. Use the topology editor for this purpose.
5.1.7.5 PROFINET IO with IRT - Overview
Overview
PROFINET IO with IRT satisfies communication requirements which go beyond the sending of 
standard signals. As far as IRT is concerned, the jitters which may still be encountered with RT 
during communication are significantly reduced by synchronizing the network. 
A time-slot procedure is required at a level above that of the Ethernet network. One time 
slot is reserved for the IRT telegrams and another slot is reserved for the RT and IP-based 
telegrams, in which the standard Ethernet communication (NRT (optional)) also runs. This 
type of approach requires all devices involved in IRT communication to be synchronized. 
PROFINET IO
5.1 PROFINET IO overview
Communication
50 System Manual, 04/2023, A5E33436509B
PDF_PAGE 137
7. Click on Add to add a station or an I/O system to the sync domain.
8. Click OK to add the station / IO system.
5.3.8 Defining send clock and refresh times
PROFINET RT and IRT are forms of cyclic communication; the basic clock is the send clock. The 
update time is a multiple (2n) of the send clock and the devices are supplied with data in this cycle 
clock. Individual update times can be set for each device.
Note
With IRT High Performance, the devices are supplied with data during each sending cycle 
(sending cycle = update time). However, the data is only evaluated every nth cycle in the 
SIMOTION Servo cycle clock (Servo_fast runs scaled-down to the servo cycle clock) or 
SINAMICS_Integrated.
As far as SINAMICS_Integrated is concerned, the controller can be used to define an application 
cycle in such a way that it is only supplied with new data every n cycles.
PROFINET IO
5.3 Configuring PROFINET IO with SIMOTION
Communication
System Manual, 04/2023, A5E33436509B 137
PDF_PAGE 138
Configuring a send clock for PROFINET IRT
1. In HW Config, open the Domain Management dialog box.
Figure 5-43 Domain Management
2. Select an appropriate send clock for the process. The transmission cycle clock is the smallest 
possible transmission interval. The send clock is preset to 1 ms.
Note
Communication should be no faster than required, irrespective of what the maximum 
communication speed may be. This will reduce the bandwidth requirement and the relieve 
the load that the devices need to support.
PROFINET IO
5.3 Configuring PROFINET IO with SIMOTION
Communication
138 System Manual, 04/2023, A5E33436509B
PDF_PAGE 139
Configuring a send clock for PROFINET RT
1. Double-click on the PN interface. The Properties dialog box opens.
2. Switch to the PROFINET tab and select a send clock. The send clock can only be set if IO 
controllers and IO devices are not synchronized.
Figure 5-44 Configuring a send clock for PROFINET RT
Defining the update times
The update times for the data exchange of the IO devices is set in the Properties PROFINET IO 
System dialog box.
1. Click the path for the PROFINET IO system in HW Config and select Object properties from 
the context menu. The dialog is displayed.
2. Switch to the Update time tab and highlight the respective IO device for which you want to 
set the update time.
PROFINET IO
5.3 Configuring PROFINET IO with SIMOTION
Communication
System Manual, 04/2023, A5E33436509B 139