 
© Ecma International 2024  5 
 
RFU Reserved for Future Use 
RLS Release 
RLS_REQ Release Request 
RLS_RES Release Response 
tRW Response Waiting Time 
SAK Select AcKnowledge 
SB Start Byte for data exchange protocol at fc/128 
SDD Single Device Detection (anticollision) 
SYNC synchronisation pattern 
TO Time Out  
UID Unique Identifier 
WT Waiting Time 
WUP Wakeup 
WUPA Wake UP command, Type A 
WUP_REQ Wakeup Request 
WUP_RES Wakeup Response 
5 Conventions and notations 
5.1 Representation of numbers 
The following conventions and notations apply in this document unless otherwise stated:  
− Letters and digits in single quotation marks represent numbers in hexadecimal notation.  
− The setting of bits is denoted by ZERO or ONE. 
− Numbers in binary notation and bit patterns are represented by strings of digits 0 and 1 shown with the most 
significant bit to the left. Within such strings, X may be used to indicate that the setting of a bit is not specified 
within the string, e.g. (XXXX)b. 
5.2 Names 
The names of basic elements, e.g. specific fields, are written with a capital initial letter.  
6 Conformance 
A system implementing the active and the passive communication mode shall be in conformance with this 
document if it meets all the mandatory requirements specified herein. 
7 General 
NFCIP-1 Targets and Initiators shall implement both the active and the passive communication modes.  
In the active communication mode, both the Initiator and the Target use their own RF field to communicate. The 
Initiator starts the NFCIP -1 transaction, which consists of initialisation, protocol activation, data exchange and 
optional device deactivation. The Target responds to an Initiator command in the active communication mode 
by modulating its own RF field. 
In the passive communication mode, the Initiator generates the RF field and starts the transaction. The Target 
responds to an Initiator command in the passive communication mode by modulating the Initiators’ RF field, 
which is referred to as load modulation. 