 
© Ecma International 2024  15 
 
Up to 16 time slots may be supported by agreement between the interchange parties. The number of time slot 
may be indicated by the value TSN in the Polling Request Frame from the Initiator.  
A Target, which is already powered up, responds to the Initiator according to the following rules after receiving 
the Polling Request Frame from the Initiator. 
− The Target shall generate a random number R in the range 0 to TSN. 
− The Target shall wait until the time slot is matched to R, then send the Polling Response Frame and wait 
for the next Request. The Target may ignore a Polling Request to reduce instances of collision of Responses. 
The communication between the Initiator and the Target shall be initiated as follows:  
− The Target gets power from the operating field generated by the Initiator. 
− The Target shall become ready for receiving a Polling Request from the Initiator in maximum 2  sec from 
power up. 
− The Target shall wait for a Polling Request sent from the Initiator. The Initiator may send a Polling Request 
without waiting for the Target to become ready. 
− If the Initiator fails to receive Polling Response, then the Initiator may send Polling Request again. The 
Initiator of the Passive communication mode shall keep RF power on while executing the SDD procedure.  
The delay td between the end of the Request Frame and the first time slot shall be 512 × 64/ fc. 
The time slot unit ts shall be 256 × 64/fc. 
Figure 8 illustrates an example situation of the SDD by time slot. In this example, 5 Targets are responding. The 
Initiator may be able to get the Response information of the Target 2, 4, and 5 excluding 1 and 3. Because a 
collision has occurred at the time slot 1. 
The Initiator may repeat the SDD procedure. 
 
Figure 8 — SDD by time slot 
11.3.2.4 NFCID2 contents 
NFCID2 shall be an 8-byte number for identifying NFCIP-1 devices. The 2-byte prefix code shall be followed by 
a 6-byte number in the NFCID2. The prefix code shall define the characteristics for the 6 ‑byte number. 
The prefix code and 6-byte number shall be used as specified in Table 3. 
