 
© Ecma International 2024  19 
 
12.3 Passive communication mode Activation flow 
The following activation sequence shall be applied: 
a) The Initiator shall perform the initial RFCA sequence as defined in 11.2.2. 
b) The Initiator shall perform the Initialisation and SDD for the Passive communication mode at a selected bit 
rate as defined in 11.2. 
c) The support of the NFCIP-1 protocol shall be checked at the different bit rates according to the result of the 
SDD. 
d) The Target may fall back to the Initialisation and SDD if no ATR_REQ is supported.  
e) The ATR_REQ may be sent by the Initiator as a next command if the Target indicates that the Attribute 
Request is supported. 
f) The Target shall send its ATR_RES as answer to the ATR_REQ. The Target shall only answer to the 
ATR_REQ if the ATR_REQ is received directly after selection. 
g) If the Target supports any changeable parameter in the ATR_REQ, a PSL_REQ may be used by the Initiator 
as the next command after receiving the ATR_REQ to change parameters.  
h) The Target shall send a PSL_RES as answer to the PSL_REQ. 
i) A Target does not need to complement the Parameter Selection, if it does not support any changeable 
parameters in the ATR_RES. 
j) The transparent data shall be sent using the data exchange transport protocol. 
The Initiator activation sequence for a Target in the Passive communication mode is shown in Figure 13. 
12.4 Active communication mode Activation flow 
The following activation sequence for the protocol in the active communication mode shall be applied:  
a) The Initiator shall perform the initial RFCA sequence as defined in 11.2.2. 
b) The Initiator shall switch to the active communication mode and select the bit rate.  
c) The Initiator shall send the ATR_REQ. 
d) The Target shall send its ATR_RES in response to the ATR_REQ. After a successful response the device 
is selected. 
e) If the Initiator detects a collision of data the ATR_REQ shall be re-sent. 
f) It the Target supports any changeable parameter in the ATR_RES, a PSL_REQ may be used by the Initiator 
as the next command after receiving the ATR_RES to change parameters.  
g) The Target shall send a PSL_RES in response to the PSL_REQ. 
h) A Target does not need to complement the Parameter Selection, if it does not support any changeable 
parameters in the ATR_RES. 
The Initiator activation sequence for a Target in the active communication mode is shown in Figure 14. 