 
28  © Ecma International 2024 
 
12.6.1.4 Handling of timeout (TO) 
12.6.1.4.1 General 
Defined by the initially chosen mode, the communication is either active or passive. The handling of the timeout 
is different for active and passive communication modes. 
12.6.1.4.2 Handling in active communication mode 
In active communication mode the communication flow is handled by switching the carrier frequency.  
Initiator: The Initiator shall ignore a Target that exceeded tRW calculated using TO byte in ATR_REQ from a 
Target device and continue operation. 
Target: The Target shall use a TO value that allows common communication and shall use a Supervisory pdu 
indicating Timeout extension to extend the defined tRW. See 12.7.1.1.1. 
12.6.1.4.3 Handling of timeout in passive communication mode 
In passive communication mode the communication is only handled by communication flow. The carrier 
frequency is not switched. 
Initiator: The Initiator shall first use error handling and if no response is received ignores a Target device, that 
has exceeded the specified timeout and continue communication. 
Target: The Target shall use a TO value that allows common communication and shall use a Supervisory pdu 
indicating Timeout extension to extend the defined tRW. See 12.7.1.1.1. 
12.6.1.5 Handling of DID 
12.6.1.5.1 Handling of DID in active and in passive communication mode 
When the Initiator has sent an ATR_REQ containing a DID equal to ZERO and  
a) received an ATR_ RES containing DID equal to ZERO, the Initiator 
⎯ shall send pdus containing no DID to the Target, and 
⎯ shall not activate any other Target while this Target is not deactivated. 
b) received an ATR_RES containing DID not equal to ZERO, the Initiator 
⎯ shall continue with error handling. 
When the Initiator has sent an ATR_REQ containing a DID not equal to ZERO and  
a) received an ATR_RES containing the same DID, the Initiator 
⎯ shall send pdus containing the DID to the Target,  
⎯ shall not use the DID for any other Targets, and 
⎯ shall not use DID=0 for any other Targets. 
b) received an ATR_RES containing any other DID, the Initiator 
⎯ shall continue with error handling. 