 
© Ecma International 2024  37 
 
— When the Initiator uses an NAD, the Target shall also use an NAD. 
— If MI bit is set, the NAD shall only be transmitted in the first frame. 
— The Initiator shall never use the NAD to address two different Targets. 
Byte 4 to Byte n: User data bytes 
The data field shall contain the transported data and is optional. When present, it conveys either application 
data or status information. The length of the data field is calculated by subtracting the mandatory and optional 
send bytes of the data exchange transport header from the length byte and additionally subtracting one.  
12.7.1.2 Handling of pdu number information 
12.7.1.2.1 Initiator rules 
The PNI of the Initiator shall be initialized for each Target with all ZEROs. 
When an Information, Protected or ACK/NACK pdu with an equal PNI is received, the Initiator shall increment 
the current PNI for that Target before optionally sending a new frame. 
12.7.1.2.2 Target rules 
The PNI of the Target shall be initialized with all ZEROs. 
When an Information, Protected or ACK/NACK pdu with an equal PNI was received the Target shall send its 
response with this PNI and shall increment the PNI afterwards. 
12.7.1.3 Handling of Blocks 
12.7.1.3.1 General rules 
The first pdu shall be sent by the Initiator. 
When an Information or Protected pdu indicating more information is received the pdu shall be acknowledged 
by an ACK pdu. 
Supervisory pdus are only used in pairs. A Supervisory Request shall always be followed by a Supervisory 
Response. 
12.7.1.3.2 Initiator rules 
When an invalid pdu was received a NACK pdu shall be sent (except in the case of DSL or RLS).  
When a timeout occurs, a Supervisory pdu indicating Attention (Attention Request) shall be sent (except a NACK 
pdu has been sent before). 
When a timeout occurs and a NACK pdu has been sent before, the NACK pdu shall be retransmitted.  
When an ACK pdu is received, if its pdu number is equal to the current PNI of the Initiator, the chaining shall be 
continued. 
If the DSL_REQ is not answered by a valid DSL_RES the DSL_REQ may be retransmitted or the Target 
command ignored. 