 
38  © Ecma International 2024 
 
12.7.1.3.3 Target rules 
The Target is allowed to send a Supervisory pdu indicating Response timeout extension (Timeout extension 
Request) instead of an Information pdu. 
When an Information or Protected pdu not containing chaining is received it shall be acknowledged by an 
Information or Protected pdu. 
When a NACK pdu is received, if the PNI is equal to the PNI of the previous sent pdu, the previous block shall 
be re-transmitted. 
When an erroneous pdu is received the Target shall not answer but stay in the same State.  
When an Attention Request is received, the Target shall respond by sending a Supervisory pdu indicating 
Attention (Attention Response). 
12.7.2 Response timeout extension 
The response timeout extension shall only be used by the Target. When a Target needs more time to process 
the received block from the Initiator than defined in tRW, it shall use a Timeout extension. A Timeout extension 
Request contains a 1-byte data field (Response timeout extension byte). The definition of the byte is shown in 
Figure 35. 
 
Figure 35 — Response timeout extension byte 
— bit 8 and bit 7: Shall be set to ZERO. 
— bit 6 to bit 1: RTOX value. 
For RTOX the values 0 and 60 to 63 are RFU. For all other values, the intermediate tRW,INT shall be calculated 
by the following formula: 
tRW,INT = tRW × RTOX 
The tRW,INT starts after the Initiator has sent its Supervisory pdu indicating Timeout extension (Timeout extension 
Response) to the Target. In case tRW,INT exceeds tRW,MAX, tRW,MAX shall be used. The tRW,INT is valid until the next 
frame has been received by the Initiator. 
12.7.3 Attention — Target present 
The Initiator shall send the Attention Request to the Target to ensure the Target is still in field for passive 
communication mode or to be able to detect a Target loss during multi -activation. This command shall not 
change the current State of the Target. 
The Target shall respond to a valid Attention Request by sending an Attention Response containing the identical 
data field to the Initiator. 
If the Target receives an incorrect pdu it shall not respond and shall stay in the same State.  
