 
© Ecma International 2024  39 
 
12.7.4 Protocol operation 
After the activation sequence the Target shall wait for a block as only the Initiator has the right to send. After 
sending a block, the Initiator shall switch to receive mode and wait for a block before switching back to transmit 
mode. The Target may trans mit blocks only in response to received blocks. After responding, the Target shall 
return to the receive mode. 
The Initiator shall not initiate a new pair of Request/Response until the current pair of Request/Response has 
been completed or if the frame waiting time is exceeded without response.  
12.7.5 Multi-Activation 
The Multi-Activation feature allows the Initiator to hold several Targets active simultaneously. It allows switching 
directly between several Targets without needing additional time for deactivation of a Target and activation of 
another Target. 
For an example of Multi -Activation see Table 10. The Initiator needs to handle a separate package number 
information for each activated Target. 
Table 10 — Multi-Activation 
Initiator action Status Target 1 Status Target 2 Status Target 3 
Choose active communication mode       
Activate Target 1 with DID=1 Selected (1) Sense Sense 
Any communication with DID=1 Selected (1) Sense Sense 
…       
Activate Target 2 with DID=2 Selected (1) Selected (2) Sense 
Any communication with DID=1,2 Selected (1) Selected (2) Sense 
…       
Activate Target 3 with DID=3 Selected (1) Selected (2) Selected (3) 
Any communication with DID=1,2,3 Selected (1) Selected (2) Selected (3) 
…       
Deactivation Sequence with DID=1 Sleep Selected (2) Selected (3) 
Any communication with DID=2,3 Sleep Selected (2) Selected (3) 
…       
Deactivation Sequence with DID=2 Sleep Sleep Selected (3) 
Any communication with DID=3 Sleep Sleep Selected (3) 
…       
Deactivation Sequence with DID=3 Sleep Sleep Sleep 
…       
 
12.7.6 More information (Chaining) 
The chaining feature allows the Initiator or Target to transmit information that does not fit in a single block, by 
dividing the information into several blocks. Each of those blocks shall have a length less than or equal to the 
maximum frame size (LENMAX). 
The chaining bit in the PFB of a protocol frame controls the chaining of frames. Each frame with the chaining 
bit set shall be acknowledged by an ACK pdu. 