u-blox 20 HPG 2.00 - Interface description
1 General information
1.1 Document overview
This document describes the interface of the  High precision GNSS receiver. The interface consists
of the following parts:
• NMEA protocol
• UBX protocol
• RTCM protocol
• SPARTN protocol
• Conﬁguration interface
Some of the features described here may not be available in the receiver, and some may
require speciﬁc conﬁgurations to be enabled. See the applicable data sheet for availability of the
features and the integration manual for instructions for enabling them.
Previous versions of u-blox receiver documentation combined general receiver description and
interface speciﬁcation. In the current documentation the receiver description is included in the
integration manual.
See also Related documents.
1.2 Firmware and protocol versions
u-blox receivers execute ﬁrmware from internal ROM or load an external image and execute it from
internal code-RAM.
• If the product does not have internal code-RAM, the ﬁrmware runs from the ROM.
• If the product has internal code-RAM but an external image is not available, the ﬁrmware runs
from the ROM. Some products have only limited ROM and enter boot mode with no GNSS function
if an external image is not available.
• If the external ﬁrmware image is stored in a ﬂash memory, it is loaded into the code-RAM before
execution.
• In some products, the ﬁrmware image can be stored in the host system and loaded into the code-
RAM from there.
The location and the version of the currently running ﬁrmware can be found in the boot screen and
in the UBX-MON-VER message. If the ﬁrmware has been loaded from the ﬂash memory or from the
host processor, it is indicated by text "EXT", whereas running the ﬁrmware from the internal ROM
is indicated by text "ROM".
The u-blox receivers output the boot screen automatically upon receiver start or after hardware
reset over the serial interfaces in UBX-INF-NOTICE or NMEA-Standard-TXT1 messages if conﬁgured
using CFG-INFMSG.  The UBX-MON-VER message can be polled using the UBX polling mechanism.
An example of the boot screen and the ﬁrmware version information in u-center 2 is shown in Figure
1.
1 The boot screen output in NMEA-Standard-TEXT messages depends on the ﬁrmware and it's not supported in the
safeboot mode or when running the ﬁrmware from the internal ROM.
UBXDOC-304424225-19888 - R01
 
1 General information Page 12 of 224
C1-Public