u-blox 20 HPG 2.00 - Interface description
B M Example Information
✓ ANTSUPERV=AC SD PDoS SR Conﬁguration of the antenna supervisor, where:
• AC = Active antenna control enabled
• SD = Short circuit detection enabled
• OD = Open circuit detection enabled
• PDoS = Short circuit power down logic enabled
• SR = Automatic recovery from short state enabled
✓ PF=FFF79 Product conﬁguration.
✓ BD=E01C GNSS band conﬁguration.
The "FWVER" product ﬁrmware version indicates which ﬁrmware is currently running. This is
referred to as "ﬁrmware version" in this and other documents.
The version and revision numbers should only be used to identify a known ﬁrmware version. They
are not necessarily numeric nor are they guaranteed to increase with later ﬁrmware versions.
All u-blox receivers output the start text, hardware version, and ﬁrmware version and revision.
Some of the other entries in the boot screen example may be omitted.
The product ﬁrmware version and revision relate to the protocol version:
Firmware version Version and revision identiﬁer Protocol version
HPG 2.00B02 HPG 2.00B002 (d5e4b7) 50.01
1.3 Receiver conﬁguration
u-blox positioning receivers are fully conﬁgurable with UBX protocol messages. The conﬁguration
used by the receiver during normal operation is called the "current conﬁguration". The current
conﬁguration can be changed during normal operation by sending UBX-CFG-VALSET messages
over any I/O port. The receiver changes its current conﬁguration immediately after receiving a
conﬁguration message. The receiver always uses the current conﬁguration only.
The current conﬁguration is loaded from permanent conﬁguration hard-coded in the receiver
ﬁrmware (the defaults) and from non-volatile memory (user conﬁguration) on startup of the receiver.
Changes made to the current conﬁguration at run-time will be lost when there is a power cycle, a
hardware reset or a (complete) controlled software reset (see Conﬁguration reset behavior).
See Conﬁguration interface for a detailed description of the receiver conﬁguration system, the
explanation of the conﬁguration concept and its principles and interfaces.
The conﬁguration interface has changed from earlier u-blox positioning receivers. There is
some backwards compatibility provided in UBX-CFG conﬁguration messages. Users are strongly
advised to only use the Conﬁguration interface. See also .
See the integration manual for a basic receiver conﬁguration most commonly used.
1.4 Message naming
Message names are written in full with the parts of the name separated by hyphens ("-"). The full
message name consists of the protocol name (e.g. UBX), the class name (e.g. NAV) and the message
name (e.g. PVT). For example, the receiver software version information message is referred to as
UBX-MON-VER.   Similarly, the NMEA-Standard-GGA is the NMEA standard message (sentence) with
the global positioning ﬁx data.
References to ﬁelds of the message add the ﬁeld name separated by a dot ("."), e.g. UBX-MON-
VER.swVersion.
UBXDOC-304424225-19888 - R01
 
1 General information Page 14 of 224
C1-Public