u-blox 20 HPG 2.00 - Interface description
Some messages use a fourth level of naming, called the message version. One example is the UBX-
MGA-GPS message for GPS assistance data, which exists in versions for ephemerides (UBX-MGA-
GPS-EPH) and almanacs (UBX-MGA-GPS-ALM).
Names of conﬁguration items are of the form CFG-GROUP-ITEM. For example, CFG-NAVSPG-
DYNMODEL refers to the navigation dynamic platform model the receiver uses. Constants add
a fourth level to the item name, such as CFG-NAVSPG-DYNMODEL-AUTOMOT for the automotive
platform model. In the context of describing an item's value, only the last part of the constant name
can be used (e.g. "set CFG-NAVSPG-DYNMODEL to PORT for portable applications").
1.5 GNSS, satellite, and signal identiﬁers
1.5.1 Overview
Many UBX protocol messages contain infomation about speciﬁc satellites. Any single satellite can
be identiﬁed by a gnssId ﬁeld indicating the GNSS the satellite is part of and an svId (SV for space
vehicle) ﬁeld indicating the number of the satellite in that system. Usually, the svId is the native
number associated with the satellite in the speciﬁc GNSS. For example, the Galileo SV4 is identiﬁed
as gnssId 2, svId 4, while the GPS SV4 is gnssId 0, svId 4.
Some legacy UBX protocol messages combine both the satellite number and the GNSS
identiﬁcation into a one-byte (type U1) ﬁeld. See the single svid mapping in Satellite identiﬁers to
identify the corresponding GNSS and satellite.
GLONASS satellites can be tracked before they have been identiﬁed. In UBX messages, the unknown
satellites are reported with svId 255. In NMEA messages, the unknown satellites are null (empty)
ﬁelds. Product-related documentation and u-center use R? to label unidentiﬁed GLONASS satellites.
Signal identiﬁers are used when diﬀerent signals from the same GNSS satellite need to be
distinguished (e.g. in the UBX-NAV-SIG message). A separate sigId ﬁeld identiﬁes the signal. These
signal identiﬁers are only valid when combined with a GNSS identiﬁer (gnssId ﬁeld).
The NMEA protocol (version 4.10 and later) identiﬁes GNSS satellites with a one-digit system ID
and a two-digit satellite number. u-blox receivers support this method in their NMEA output when
"strict" SV numbering is selected. In most cases this is the default setting, but it can be checked or
changed using the Conﬁguration interface (see also NMEA GNSS, satellite, and signal numbering).
In order to support some GNSS (e.g. BeiDou, Galileo, QZSS), which are not supported by some or
all NMEA protocol versions, an "extended" SV numbering scheme can be enabled. This uses the
NMEA-deﬁned numbers where possible but adds other number ranges to support other GNSS. Note
however that these non-standard extensions require 3-digit numbers, which may not be supported
by some NMEA parsing software. For example, QZSS satellites use numbers in the range 193 to 202.
The NMEA standard deﬁnes signal identiﬁers to distinguish diﬀerent signals sent by a single
GNSS satellite (e.g. L2 CL and CM). u-blox positioning receivers use those identiﬁers for signal
identiﬁcation, as far as the corresponding standard is supported in a particular product.
UBXDOC-304424225-19888 - R01
 
1 General information Page 15 of 224
C1-Public