u-blox 20 HPG 2.00 - Interface description
Filter Conﬁguration Item Description
Date ﬁltering CFG-NMEA-OUT_INVDATE Enable to permit the receiver's best knowledge of date to be
output, even though it might be wrong.
GPS-only ﬁltering CFG-NMEA-OUT_ONLYGPS Enable to restrict output to only report GPS satellites.
Track ﬁltering CFG-NMEA-OUT_FROZENCOG Enable to permit course over ground (COG) to be reported even
when it would otherwise be frozen.
The following ﬁltering ﬂags can be used to conﬁgure the output of some NMEA message ﬂags:
Mode Conﬁguration Item Description
Compatibility mode CFG-NMEA-COMPAT Some older NMEA applications expect the NMEA output to be
formatted in a speciﬁc way, for example, they will only work if the
latitude and longitude have exactly four digits behind the decimal
point. u-blox receivers oﬀer a compatibility mode to support these
legacy applications.
Consideration mode CFG-NMEA-CONSIDER u-blox receivers use a sophisticated signal quality detection
scheme, in order to produce the best possible position output.
This algorithm considers all SV measurements, and may
eventually decide to only use a subset thereof, if it improves
the overall position accuracy. If consideration mode is enabled,
all satellites, which were considered for navigation, are
communicated as being used for the position determination.
If consideration mode is disabled, only those satellites which
after the consideration step remained in the position output are
marked as being used.
Limit length mode CFG-NMEA-LIMIT82 Enabling this mode will limit the NMEA sentence length to a
maximum of 82 characters.
High precision mode CFG-NMEA-HIGHPREC Enabling this mode increases precision of the position output.
Latitude and longitude then have seven digits after the decimal
point, and altitude has three digits after the decimal point. Note:
The high precision mode cannot be set in conjunction with either
compatibility mode or Limit82 mode.
The following extended conﬁguration options are available:
Option Conﬁguration Item(s) Description
GNSS to ﬁlter CFG-NMEA-FILT_GPS etc. Filters satellites based on the GNSS they belong to.
Satellite numbering CFG-NMEA-SVNUMBERING This ﬁeld conﬁgures the display of satellites that do not have an
NMEA-deﬁned value. Note: this does not apply to satellites with
an unknown ID. See also Satellite identiﬁers.
Main Talker ID CFG-NMEA-MAINTALKERID By default the main Talker ID (i.e. the Talker ID used for all
messages other than GSV) is determined by the GNSS
assignment of the receiver's channels (see conﬁguration items
CFG-SIGNAL-*). This ﬁeld enables the main Talker ID to be
overridden. See also NMEA Talker ID.
GSV Talker ID CFG-NMEA-GSVTALKERID By default the Talker ID for GSV messages is GNSS-speciﬁc (as
deﬁned by NMEA). This ﬁeld enables the GSV Talker ID to be
overridden.
BDS Talker ID CFG-NMEA-BDSTALKERID By default the Talker ID for BeiDou is "GB". This ﬁeld enables the
BeiDou Talker ID to be overridden.
2.3 NMEA proprietary messages
The NMEA standard allows for proprietary, manufacturer-speciﬁc messages to be added. These
shall be marked with a manufacturer mnemonic. The mnemonic assigned to u-blox is UBX and is
used for all non-standard messages. These proprietary NMEA messages therefore have the address
ﬁeld set to PUBX. The ﬁrst data ﬁeld in a PUBX message identiﬁes the message number with two
digits.
UBXDOC-304424225-19888 - R01
 
2 NMEA protocol Page 20 of 224
C1-Public