u-blox 20 HPG 2.00 - Interface description
Name Type Size
(Bytes)
Range Resolution
R4 IEEE 754 single (32-bit) precision 4 -2127…2127 ~ value·2-24
R8 IEEE 754 double (64-bit) precision 8 -21023…21023 ~ value·2-53
CH ASCII / ISO 8859-1 char (8-bit) 1 n/a n/a
U:n unsigned bitﬁeld value of n bits width var. variable variable
I:n signed (two's complement) bitﬁeld value of n bits width var. variable variable
S:n signed bitﬁeld value of n bits width, in sign (most
signiﬁcant bit) and magnitude (remaining bits) notation
var. variable variable
3.3.6 UBX ﬁelds scale and unit
Fields in UBX messages can have a unit deﬁned. Whenever possible, SI units and symbols are used
(e.g. "m" for meters, "s" for seconds). For civil (UTC) time representation units of years (y), months
(month), days (d), hours (h), minutes (min) and seconds (s) are used.
Fields in UBX messages can have a scale factor deﬁned. Unity (factor 1) is assumed if no scale is
speciﬁed. For integer type ﬁelds this is often combined with a unit. When a scale is combined with
a unit, the scale represents the smallest storage unit. For example, if meters (m) are expressed
(stored) in centimeters the scale would be 0.01 (or 1e-2). This is equivalent of specifying a unit of
centimeters (cm) and no scale.
The description of some integer values (e.g. U2, I4 or I8) indicates a ﬁxed-point format (e.g. [UU.FF],
[IIIII.FFF] or [IIIIIII.FFFFFFFF]). The ﬁxed-point value can be retrieved from the integer value by ﬁrst
casting it to appropriate type (e.g. as a ﬂoating-point number) and then scaling it with the indicated
scaling factor.
3.3.7 UBX repeated ﬁelds
There are two types of repetitions in UBX messages. The ﬁrst type speciﬁes that a single ﬁeld is
repeated a constant number of times. This repetition is deﬁned in the type of the ﬁeld. For example,
the UBX message example can specify a ﬁeld data of type U1[5]. In this case the data ﬁeld should
be interpreted as an array of ﬁve U1 values.
The second type of repetition in messages is referred to as repeated groups, which groups one or
more ﬁelds into a block of payload data. There are several types of repetition:
• The number of repetitions of variable-by-field group is indicated by another, earlier ﬁeld in the
same message. The number of repetitions can be zero or more, depending on the value of the
referenced ﬁeld.
• A constant group has a constant number of repetitions.
• An optional group is repeated zero or one times, depending on the available payload data. That
is, the ﬁelds are present in the message only if the payload of the message is large enough to
cover the whole group of ﬁelds.
• The number of repetitions of a variable-by-size group is given by the available payload size. The
group will repeat until there is not enough payload data left to cover the whole group of ﬁelds
another time.
UBXDOC-304424225-19888 - R01
 
3 UBX protocol Page 46 of 224
C1-Public