u-blox 20 HPG 2.00 - Interface description
Each conﬁguration item is of a certain type, which deﬁnes the interpretation of the raw binary data
(see also UBX data types):
• U1, U2, U4, U8: unsigned little-endian integers of 8-, 16-, 32- and 64-bit widths
• I1, I2, I4, I8: signed little-endian, two's complement integers of 8-, 16-, 32- and 64-bit widths
• R4, R8: IEEE 754 single (32-bit) and double (64-bit) precision ﬂoats
• E1, E2, E4: unsigned little-endian enumeration of 8-, 16-, and 32-bit widths
• X1, X2, X4, X8: unsigned little-endian integers of 8-, 16-, 32- and 64-bit widths for bitﬁelds and
other binary data, such as strings
• L: single-bit boolean (true = 1, false = 0), stored as U1
6.3 Conﬁguration layers
The receiver has several configuration layers . They are separate sources of conﬁguration items.
Some of the layers are read-only and others are modiﬁable. Layers are organized in terms of priority.
Values in a high-priority layer replace values stored in a low-priority layer. At startup, the receiver
reads all conﬁguration layers and stacks up the items to create the current configuration, which is
used by the receiver at run-time.
The following conﬁguration layers are available (in order of priority, highest priority ﬁrst):
• RAM: This layer contains items stored in volatile RAM. This is the current conﬁguration. The
conﬁguration items in this layer can be set at run-time and are eﬀective immediately.
• BBR: This layer contains items stored in the battery-backed RAM. The contents in this layer are
preserved as long as a battery backup supply is provided during oﬀ periods. The conﬁguration
items in this layer can be set at run-time and they become eﬀective when the receiver is
restarted.
• Flash: This layer contains conﬁguration items stored permanently in the external ﬂash memory
and it is available only if external ﬂash memory is used. The conﬁguration items in this layer can
be set at run-time and they become eﬀective when the receiver is restarted.
• Default: This layer contains all items known to the running receiver software and the hard-
coded default values. Data in this layer cannot be modiﬁed during run-time. The default layer
includes limited one-time programmable (OTP) memory for setting customized default values
during device production.
The stacking of the conﬁguration items from the diﬀerent layers (sources) in order to construct the
current conﬁguration in the RAM layer is depicted in the following ﬁgure. For each deﬁned item, i.e.
for each item in the default layer, the receiver software goes through the layers above and stacks
all the found items on top. Some items may not be present in every layer. The result is the RAM
layer ﬁlled with all conﬁguration items given conﬁguration values coming from the highest priority
layer the corresponding item was present. In the example ﬁgure, bold text indicates the source of
the value in the current conﬁguration (the RAM layer). Empty boxes mean that the layer can hold the
item but that it is not currently stored there. Boxes with text mean that an item is currently stored
in the layer.
UBXDOC-304424225-19888 - R01
 
6 Conﬁguration interface Page 167 of 224
C1-Public