u-blox 20 HPG 2.00 - Interface description
Note that this is an arbitrary example and any number of items of any value storage size can be
concatenated the same way.
6.6 Conﬁguration transactions
The conﬁguration interface supports two mechanisms of conﬁguration: the ﬁrst is a transactionless
mechanism where sent conﬁguration changes are applied immediately to the conﬁguration layer(s)
requested. The second mechanism is a conﬁguration transaction.
A transaction oﬀers a way of queuing multiple conﬁguration changes. It is particularly useful where
diﬀerent conﬁguration keys depend on each other in such a way that sending one before the other
can cause the conﬁguration to be rejected. The queued conﬁguration change requests are stored
then checked collectively before being applied to the receiver.
A transaction can have the following states described in the ﬁgure below.
When starting a transaction, specify the layer(s) to apply the changes to. This list of conﬁguration
layer(s) must be observed throughout the transaction states. Modifying the conﬁguration layer(s)
mid-transaction causes the transaction to be aborted and consequently, no queued changes will be
applied.
In the start transaction state, the receiver locks the conﬁguration database so that changes from
another entity or message cannot be applied. It is possible to send a conﬁguration key-value pairs
with the start transaction state. These are queued waiting to be applied.
In the ongoing state, a conﬁguration key and value must be sent. The receiver aborts the transaction
and does not apply any changes if this condition is violated. Key-value pairs sent in the ongoing state
are queued waiting to be applied.
In the apply state, the receiver collectively checkes the queued changes and applied them to the
requested conﬁguration layer(s). Note that any additional key-value pairs sent within the apply state
are ignored.
Note that a transaction can only come from a single source, a UBX-CFG-VALSET message or a UBX-
CFG-VALDEL message. This means that in any given transaction it is not possible to mix a delete
UBXDOC-304424225-19888 - R01
 
6 Conﬁguration interface Page 169 of 224
C1-Public