1. Scope
This document contains errata on the OCPP 1.6-J specification (JSON) and JSON-Schema files.
1.1. JSON Schema files
With the release of this version of the erratasheet (2025-04) also a OCPP 1.6 JSON Schema file was updated.
Version information has been added to all the files: ID field. The updated StopTransaction.req JSON Schema file
for this version is marked with: "urn:OCPP:1.6:2025:04"
1.2. Terminology and Conventions
Underlined: when needed to clarify differences, they might be underlined.
2. Major errata
Problems with the content/definition of the messages, class and enumerations of the protocol.
2.1. (2025-04) - MeterValues.json and StopTransaction.json incorrect spelling of
Celsius V2
Note: This erratum supersedes erratum: MeterValues.json and StopTransaction.json incorrect spelling of Celsius
There are several issues with the original erratum that needs to be revised.
The erratum advises Central System implementers to update their own JSON schemas to also allow the correct
spelling. This brings risks, as the erratum is easily missed and the JSON schema’s will be used as available on the
website.
In addition, the erratum advises the Charge Point implementers to update their messages to use the corrected
spelling. This poses significant risk as this will cause interoperability issues with all Central Systems that have not
updated their JSON schemas.
Finally, while the erratum mentions that the JSON schemas will not be fixed, the MeterValues.req JSON schema
was updated. Unfortunately the StopTransaction.req JSON schema was missed. Updating the JSON schemas so
they contain both spellings is the correct decision, because the main purpose of the JSON schemas is that they
are being used for JSON Schema validation. In this case we always want to allow both spellings, to maximize
interoperability. The secondary purpose is generating the message data model from them, but even in that case
the Charge Point implementer makes an active decision on which unit of measure to send. Both spellings would
be a valid choice, but when a Charge Point implementer reads this erratum, it recommends to use the not
corrected version of the spelling; Celcius, to maximize interoperability.
Summary:
1. The JSON schema StopTransaction.req is updated to also include the corrected spelling Celsius.
2. Charge Point implementers are advised to remain using the not corrected version of the spelling
Celcius.
2