Chapter 2. New functionalities in OCPP2.0.1
OCPP 2.0.1 introduces new functionalities compared to OCPP 1.6 [OCPP1.6].
Due to improvements and new features, OCPP 2.0.1 is not backward compatible with OCPP 1.6 [OCPP1.6] or OCPP 1.5 [OCPP1.5].
2.1. Device Management
Device Management (also known as Device Model) is a long awaited feature especially welcomed by CSOs who manage a network
of (complex) charging stations (from different vendors).
It provides the following functionality:
• Inventory reporting
• Improved error and state reporting
• Improved configuration
• Customizable Monitoring
This all should help CSOs to reduce the costs of operating a Charging Station network.
Charging Station Manufacturers are free to decide themselves how much details about a Charging Station they want to publish via
Device Management: for example, they can decide what can be monitored, and what not.
2.2. Improvements for better handling of large amounts of transactions
2.2.1. One message for all transaction related functionalities
With the growing of the EV charging market, the number of Charging Stations and transactions that the CSMS needs to manage
also grows. The structure and method for reporting transaction is unified in OCPP 2.0. In OCPP 1.x, the reporting of transaction
data is split over the messages StartTransaction, StopTransaction, MeterValue and StatusNotification. With the market progressing
towards more enhanced scheduling, a need is born for more sophisticated handling of transaction data. All the StartTransaction,
StopTransaction, and transaction related MeterValue and StatusNotification messages are replaced by 'TransactionEvent'. The
StatusNotification message still exists, but only for non-transaction related status notifications about connector availability.
2.2.2. Data reduction
With the introduction of JSON over Websockets in OCPP 1.6 [OCPP1.6] a great reduction of mobile data cost can be achieved. With
OCPP 2.0, support for WebSocket Compression is introduced, which reduces the amount of data even more.
2.3. Improvements regarding cyber security
The following improvements have been added to harden OCPP against cyber attacks:
• Security profiles (3 levels) for Charging Station and/or CSMS authentication and Communication Security
• Key management for Client-Side certificates
• Secure firmware updates
• Security event log
2.4. Extended Smart Charging
In OCPP 2.0.1 Smart Charging functionality has been extended (compared to OCPP 1.6 [OCPP1.6]) to support:
• Direct Smart Charging inputs from an Energy Management System (EMS) to a Charging Station
• Improved Smart Charging with a local controller
• Support for integrated smart charging of the CSMS, Charging Station and EV ([ISO15118-1]).
Edition 4, 2025-12-03
OCPP 2.0.1 Edition 4 - © Open Charge Alliance 2025 5/13 Part 0 - Introduction