2.8. Minor changes/extensions
2.8.1. Renamed messages
In the OCPP 1.x series, the names of all messages were kept unchanged for backward compatibility, even though some message
names were found to be confusing or misleading in practice. In OCPP 2.0.1 message names have been changed, where
appropriate, to improve clarity and understanding.
Example: RemoteStartTransaction.req: a lot of implementers though it meant the Charging Station should start the transaction, but
in fact it is a request to try to start a transaction. However, for example, if no cable is plugged in, no transaction can be started.
Since the message was always intended to be a request, it has been changed to a more logical name:
RequestStartTransactionRequest.
2.8.2. TransactionId Identification & Message Sequencing
In OCPP 2.0, transaction identifiers are generated by the Charging Station, to facilitate offline charging sessions, in contrast to
OCPP 1.x, where transaction identifiers were generated at the CSMS and sent to the Charging Station. In addition, all messages
relating to a transaction are assigned incremental sequence numbering, to facilitate transaction data completeness checking at the
CSMS.
2.8.3. Extended enumerations
Many enumerations have been extended to support more use cases, provide more options etc.
2.8.4. Offline Transaction Event Indication
Charging Stations can optionally indicate in transaction messages that a transaction event occurred while the Charging Station was
Offline. This can assist a CSMS with the processing of transactions.
2.8.5. Personal message
Message that can be shown to the EV Driver and can be used for tariff information, user greetings and for indicating why a driver is
not authorized to charge. When a driver uses an authorization method (RFID for example) and the CSMS does not authorize the
driver to start charging, this field can thus contain additional reasons to provide the driver with a meaningful explanation why (s)he
is not allowed to charge.
Edition 4, 2025-12-03
OCPP 2.0.1 Edition 4 - © Open Charge Alliance 2025 7/13 Part 0 - Introduction