®
Who are the NMEA?
The NMEA stands for National Marine Electronics Association.  In a nutshell, they’re a not for profit organisation whose mission is to improve data 
communications between marine electronics manufacturers.  Read more at www.nmea.org
What is NMEA 2000?
NMEA 2000 is an open standard designed by the NMEA to help them achieve their mission by standardising the messages and connector system 
used for devices in the marine industry.  There is a common misconception that the term ‘open standard’ means freely available when in fact it 
means that the standard is available to buy at a reasonable cost from their website.  It is important to remember that the NMEA is not for profit 
(NFP) and the standards create an important source of income so that they can continue to exist.
The Network That CAN
NMEA 2000 is based on a system known as CAN which stands for ‘Controller Area Network’.  One of the reasons the NMEA chose this system over 
something like Ethernet (for example) which has a much wider bandwidth, and can support RADAR and video, is because CAN has the ability to 
guarantee message delivery even when the network is 100% loaded.  An important feature when you consider that the network is likely to contain 
important GPS information.
DeviceNet
The NMEA adopted the ‘DeviceNet’ standard for the hardware (cables and connectors) that is used to create an NMEA 2000 network.  The DeviceNet 
standard was already in use by the automotive and agricultural industries (to name a few) so it is a proven robust system and can withstand the 
harsh conditions of the marine environment.
Certification
There is a certification process in place for NMEA 2000.  This helps the user to understand that if a device carries the 
NMEA 2000 logo they can rest assured that it is compatible with an NMEA 2000 network and any other ‘NMEA 2000 
Certified’ device.  Some common terms for the user to be aware of are ‘CANbus approved’ or ‘NMEA 2000 Compatible’ 
as these are unlikely to have gone through the NMEA 2000 certification process.
‘NMEA 2000 Approved’ is a term used for cables and connectors that meet the requirements for NMEA 2000 as they 
do not require the same certification process.
1. What is NMEA 2000?