Diagnostics Continued...
When testing the resistance on the network, the value expected is 60 ohms. This test can be performed by powering down the network and placing 
a DMM across the NET-H and NET-L pins. 
If 120 Ohms is measured, only one termination resistor is installed. A second resistor will need to be installed at the opposite end of the network
to the one that is already present.
If 40 Ohms is observed, there are 3 termination resistors installed on the network so 1 will need to be removed. If it’s not obvious where the third
resistor is, check for any devices on the network with installed termination resistors and ensure they are switched off.
Network devices with termination resistors installed do not achieve NMEA 2000 certification as this practice can cause confusion on the network.
Further Testing
If the issue is still present after verifying that both the power supply and termination resistance are good, then further testing is required:
A common technique used for investigating a network is to split the network into sections by moving the terminator:
Disconnect one half of the backbone and move the termination resistor to the new, temporary end of the network. If the issue remains you have
narrowed it down to the half of the network that is still powered and active. 
If the issue does not remain it is in the half of the network that has been disconnected. Keep performing this half split method until you are able to 
narrow it down to a single device, if possible. Don’t forget to move the termination resistor each time to ensure the network is correctly terminated.
Once the issue has been narrowed down, try swapping out t-pieces or cabling with ones that are known to be good. If Field Fit Connectors have
been used, check the wiring connections inside to ensure that they are correct and firmly secured in place.
If possible, check the wiring inside the device is properly and securely terminated, ensuring to observe anti-static precautions if exposing internal
electronics. It is always best to check that this is ok with the device manufacturer before performing this step to ensure you do not void any warranty.
If an issue still remains you now know there is a problem with the device and it’s time to contact the manufacturer of that device.