MODBUS over serial line specification and implementation guide V1.02 Modbus.org    
Modbus.org http://www.modbus.org/ 5/44
Dec 20, 2006 
1.2 Protocol overview 
This document describes the MODBUS over Serial Line protocol.  MODBUS Serial Line protocol is a Master-Slave protocol.   This 
protocol takes place at level 2 of the OSI model. 
A master-slave type system has one node (the master node) that issues explicit commands to one of the "slave" nodes and process es 
responses.  Slave nodes will not typically transmit data without a request from the master node, and do not communicate with ot her 
slaves. 
At the physical level, MODBUS over Serial Line systems may use different physical interfaces (RS485, RS232).  TIA/EIA-485 (RS48 5) 
Two-Wire interface is the most common.  As an add-on option, RS485 Four-Wire interface may also be implemented. A TIA/EIA-232-
E (RS232) serial interface may also be used as an interface, when only short point to point communication is required.  (see ch apter 
"Physical Layer") 
The following figure gives a general representation of MODBUS serial communication stack compared to the 7 layers of the OSI 
model. 
Layer ISO/OSI Model  
7 Application MODBUS Application Protocol 
6 Presentation Empty 
5 Session Empty 
4 Transport Empty 
3 Network Empty 
2 Data Link MODBUS Serial Line Protocol 
1 Physical EIA/TIA-485   (or EIA/TIA-232) 
Figure 2: 
MODBUS Protocols and ISO/OSI Model 
MODBUS application layer messaging protocol, positioned at level 7 of the OSI model, provides client/server communication betwe en 
devices connected on buses or networks.  On MODBUS serial line the client  role is provided by the Master of the serial bus and the 
Slaves nodes act as servers. 
1.3 Conventions 
In this document, the following words are used to define the significance of each particular requirement.  
/square4 "MUST" / "REQUIRED" 
All requirements containing the word "MUST " are mandatory.  The word MUST , or the adjective " REQUIRED", means that the item is 
an absolute requirement of the implementation. These words are  underlined. 
/square4 "SHOULD" / "RECOMMENDED" 
All recommendations containing the word " SHOULD", or the adjective “ RECOMMENDED”, are considered desired behavior.  These 
recommendations should  be used as a guideline when choosing between different options to implement functionality.  There may be 
valid reasons in particular circumstances to ignore this item, but the full implications should be understood and the case care fully 
weighed before choosing a different course. These words are  underlined. 
/square4 "MAY" / "OPTIONAL" 
The word “MAY”, or the adjective "OPTIONAL", means that this item is truly optional.  One designer may choose to include the item 
because a particular marketplace requires it or because it enhances the product, for example; another designer may omit the sam e 
item. 
EIA/TIA-485
(or EIA/TIA-232)
MODBUS Master / Slave
MODBUS Application 
Layer 
Client / server  