MODBUS over serial line specification and implementation guide V1.02  Modbus.org    
Modbus.org http://www.modbus.org/ 8/44
Dec 20, 2006 
2.2 MODBUS Addressing rules  
The MODBUS addressing space comprises 256 different addresses.  
0 From 1 to 247  From 248 to 255  
Broadcast 
address 
Slave individual addresses Reserved 
T
he Address 0 is reserved as the broadcast address.  All slave nodes must  recognise the broadcast address. 
The MODBUS Master node has no specific address, only the slave nodes must have an address.  This address must  be unique on a 
MODBUS serial bus.  
2.3 MODBUS frame description 
The MODBUS application protocol [1] defines a simple Protocol Data Unit (PDU) independent of the underlying communication layers: 
Function code Data
MODBUS PDU
Figure 5: 
MODBUS Protocol Data Unit 
The mapping of MODBUS protocol on a specific bus or network introduces some additional fields on the Protocol Data Unit.  The 
client that initiates a MODBUS transaction builds the MODBUS PDU, and then adds fields in order to build the appropriate 
communication PDU. 
Address field Function code Data CRC (or LRC)
MODBUS SERIAL LINE PDU
MODBUS PDU
Figure 6: 
MODBUS frame over Serial Line 
/square4 On MODBUS Serial Line, the Address field only contains the slave address . 
As described in the previous section the valid slave nodes addresses are in the range of 0 – 247 decimal.  The individual slave  
devices are assigned addresses in the range of 1 – 247.  A master addresses a slave by placing the slave address in the address  field 
of the message.  When the slave returns its response, it places its own address in the response address field to let the master  know 
which slave is responding. 
/square4 The function code indicates to the server what kind of action to perform.  The function code can be followed by a data field th at 
contains request and response parameters. 
/square4 Error checking field is the result of a "Redundancy Checking" calculation that is performed on the message contents.  Two kinds  
of calculation methods are used depending on the transmission mode  that is being used (RTU or ASCII).   (see 2.5 section, " The 
two serial Transmission Modes") 