MODBUS over serial line specification and implementation guide V1.02 Modbus.org    
Modbus.org http://www.modbus.org/ 9/44
Dec 20, 2006 
2.4 Master / Slaves State Diagrams 
The MODBUS data link layer comprises two separate sub layers :  
• The Master / slave protocol
• The transmission mode ( RTU vs ASCII modes)
The following sections describes the state diagrams of a master and a slave that are independent of  transmission modes used.
The RTU and ASCII transmission modes are specified in next chapters using two state diagrams. The reception and the sending of a
frame are described.
Syntax of state diagram : 
The following state diagrams are drawn in compliance with UML standard notations.  The notation is briefly recalled below : 
State_B
trigger [ guard condition ]
/ action
State_A
When a "trigger" event occurs in a system being in "State_A", system is going into "State_B", only if " guard condition" is true.  An action "action" is then 
performed. 
2.4.1 Master State diagram  
The following drawing explains the Master behavior : 
Waiting
for reply
Idle
request sent to a
slave
/ response time-
out is started
Processing
reply
Reply reception  [Expected slave]
/ response time-out is stopped
End of reply processing
Processing
error
Frame error
response time-out expiration
End of error processing
Waiting
turnaround
delay
Request sent in
broadcast mode
/ turnaround delay
is started
turnaround delay
expiration
Reply reception
  [Unexpected slave]
Figure 7: 
Master state diagram 
Some explanations about the state diagram above : 
/square4 State "Idle" = no pending request.  This is the initial state after power-up. A request can only be sent in "Idle" state.  Afte r sending 
a request, the Master leaves the "Idle" state, and cannot send a second request at the same time 
/square4 When a unicast request is sent to a slave, the master goes into "Waiting for reply" state, and a “Response Time-out” is started .  It 
prevents the Master from staying indefinitely in "Waiting for reply" state.  Value of the Response time-out is application 
dependant. 
/square4 When a reply is received, the Master checks the reply before starting the data processing.  The checking may result in an error , 
for example a reply from an unexpected slave, or an error in the received frame.  In case of a reply received from an unexpecte d 
slave, the Response time-out is kept running.  In case of an error detected on the frame, a retry may  be performed. 
/square4 If no reply is received, the Response time-out expires, and an error is generated.  Then the Master goes into "Idle" state, ena bling 
a retry of the request.  The maximum number of retries depends on the master set-up.  