MODBUS over serial line specification and implementation guide V1.02  Modbus.org    
Modbus.org http://www.modbus.org/ 10/44
Dec 20, 2006 
/square4 When a broadcast request is sent on the serial bus, no response is returned from the slaves. Nevertheless a delay is respected 
by the Master in order to allow any slave to process the current request before sending a new one. This delay is called 
"Turnaround delay".  Therefore the master goes into "Waiting Turnaround delay" state before going back in "idle" state and befo re 
being able to send another request.  
/square4 In unicast the Response time out must  be set long enough for any slave to process the request and return the response, in 
broadcast the Turnaround delay must  be long enough for any slave to process only the request and be able to receive a new one. 
Therefore the Turnaround delay should be shorter than the Response time-out.  Typically the Response time-out is from 1s to 
several second at 9600 bps; and the Turnaround delay is from 100 ms to 200ms. 
/square4 Frame error consists of : 1) Parity checking applied to each character; 2) Redundancy checking applied to the entire frame.  Se e 
§2.6 "Error Checking Methods" for more explanations.
The state diagram is intentionally very simple.  It does not take into account access to the line, message framing, or retry fo llowing 
transmission error, etc …  For more details about frame transmission, please refer to 2.5 paragraph, " The two serial Transmission 
Modes". 
2.4.2 Slave State Diagram  
The following drawing explains the Slave behavior : 
Checking
request
Idle
Processing
required action
normal reply sent
Formatting
error reply
error while processing
error in request data
error reply sent
Formatting
normal reply
check OK
end of processing  [unicast mode]
end of processing
 [broadcast mode]
error in frame
checking, or
frame not
addressed to
this slave
reception of a
request
(from the master)
Figure 8: 
Slave state diagram 
Some explanations about the above state diagram : 
/square4 State "Idle" = no pending request.  This is the initial state after power-up. 
/square4 When a request is received, the slave checks the packet before performing the action requested in the packet.  Different errors  
may occur :  format error in the request, invalid action, …  In case of error, a reply must  be sent to the master. 
/square4 Once the required action has been completed, a unicast message requires that a reply must  be formatted and sent to the master. 
/square4 If the slave detects an error in the received frame, no respond is returned to the master. 
/square4 MODBUS diagnostics counters are defined and should be managed by any slave in order to provide diagnostic information. 
These counters can be get using the Diagnostic MODBUS function (see Appendix A, and the MODBUS application protocol 
specification [1]). 