MODBUS over serial line specification and implementation guide V1.02 Modbus.org    
Modbus.org http://www.modbus.org/ 12/44
Dec 20, 2006 
2.5 The two serial Transmission Modes 
Two different serial transmission modes are defined : The RTU mode  and the ASCII mode. 
It defines the bit contents of message fields transmitted serially on the line.  It determines how information is packed into t he message 
fields and decoded. 
The transmission mode (and serial port parameters) must be the same for all devices on a MODBUS Serial Line. 
Although the ASCII mode is required  in some specific applications, interoperability between MODBUS devices can be reached only if 
each device has the same transmission mode :  All devices must  implement the RTU Mode.  The ASCII transmission mode is an 
option. 
Devices should be set up by the users to the desired transmission mode, RTU or ASCII. Default setup must  be the RTU mode. 
2.5.1 RTU Transmission Mode 
When devices communicate on a MODBUS serial line using the RTU (Remote Terminal Unit) mode, each 8–bit byte in a message 
contains two 4–bit hexadecimal characters.  The main advantage of this mode is that its greater character density allows better  data 
throughput than ASCII mode for the same baud rate.  Each message must  be transmitted in a continuous stream of characters. 
The format ( 11 bits ) for each byte in RTU mode is : 
Coding Sy
stem:  8–bit binary 
Bits per Byte: 1 start bit 
8 data bits, least significant bit sent first 
1 bit for parity completion 
1 stop bit 
Even parity is required,  other modes ( odd parity, no parity ) may also be used.  In order to ensure a maximum compatibility with 
other products, it is recommended to support also No parity mode.  The default parity mode must  be even parity. 
Remark : the use of no parity requires 2 stop bits.  
How Characters are Transmitted Serially : 
Each character or byte is sent in this order (left to right): 
Least Significant Bit (LSB) . . . Most Significant Bit (MSB) 
Start
With Parity Checking
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Par Stop8
Figure 10: 
Bit Sequence in RTU mode 
Devices may accept by configuration either Even, Odd, or No Parity checking.  If No Parity is implemented, an additional stop bit is 
transmitted to fill out the character frame to a full 11-bit asynchronous character : 
Start
Without Parity Checking
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Stop Stop8
Figure 11: 
Bit Sequence in RTU mode (specific case of No Parity) 
Frame Checking Field :  Cyclical Redundancy Checking (CRC) 