MODBUS over serial line specification and implementation guide V1.02  Modbus.org    
Modbus.org http://www.modbus.org/ 14/44
Dec 20, 2006 
The following drawing provides a description of the RTU transmission mode state diagram. Both "master" and "slave" points of vi ew 
are expressed in the same drawing : 
Character received
/ flag = frame NOK
Emission
Reception
First character received
/ init. and start t1.5, t3.5
Emitted character
[if last emitted character]
/ init. and start t3.5
Demand of emission
Character received
 / init. and start t1.5, t3.5
t1.5 expired
Legend
t1.5, t3.5 : timers
t3.5 : 3.5 character times
t1.5 : 1.5 character times
Control and
Waiting
Initial State
t3.5 expired
Idle
/start t3.5 Comment
If frame OK
/bright processing frame
If frame NOK
/bright delete entire frame
Comment
control frame (CRC, Parity, Slave addr)
/head2rightflag = frame OK or NOK
t3.5 expired
t3.5 expired
Character received
 / init. and start t3.5
(ready to receive or to emit)
Figure 14: 
RTU  transmission mode state diagram 
Some explanations about the above state diagram: 
/square4 T
ransition from "Initial State" to "Idle" state needs t 3.5 time-out expiration :  that insures inter-frame delay  
/square4 "Idle" state is the normal state when neither emission nor reception is active. 
/square4 In RTU mode, the communication link is declared in "idle" state when there is no transmission activity after a time interval eq ual to 
at least 3,5 characters. 
/square4 When the link is in idle state, each transmitted character detected on the link is identified as the start of a frame. The link goes to 
the "active" state. Then, the end of frame  is identified when no more character is transmitted on the link after the time interval 
t3,5. 
/square4 After detection of the end of frame, the CRC calculation and checking is completed. Afterwards the address field is analysed to  
determine if the frame is for the device.  If not the frame is discarded.  In order to reduce the reception processing time the  
address field can be analysed as soon as it is received without waiting the end of frame.  In this case the CRC will be calcula ted 
and checked only if the frame is addressed to the slave (broadcast frame included). 
2.5.1.2 CRC Checking 
The RTU mode includes an error–checking field that is based on a Cyclical Redundancy Checking ( CRC) method performed on the 
message contents. 
The CRC field checks the contents of the entire message.  It is applied regardless of any parity checking method used for the 
individual characters of the message. 
The CRC field contains a 16–bit value implemented as two 8–bit bytes.   
The CRC field is appended to the message as the last field in the message.  When this is done, the low–order byte of the field is 
appended first, followed by the high–order byte.  The CRC high–order byte is the last byte to be sent in the message. 
The CRC value is calculated by the sending device, which appends the CRC to the message.  The receiving device recalculates a 
CRC during receipt of the message, and compares the calculated value to the actual value it received in the CRC field. If the t wo 
values are not equal, an error results. 
The CRC calculation is started by first pre-loading a 16–bit register to all 1’s. Then a process begins of applying successive 8–bit 
bytes of the message to the current contents of the register. Only the eight bits of data in each character are used for genera ting the 
CRC. Start and stop bits and the parity bit, do not apply to the CRC. 