MODBUS over serial line specification and implementation guide V1.02  Modbus.org    
Modbus.org http://www.modbus.org/ 16/44
Dec 20, 2006 
2.5.2 The ASCII Transmission Mode 
When devices are setup to communicate on a MODBUS serial line using ASCII (American Standard Code for Information 
Interchange) mode, each 8–bit byte in a message is sent as two ASCII characters. This mode is used when the physical 
communication link or the capabilities of the device does not allow the conformance with RTU mode requirements regarding timers  
management.   
Remark : this mode is less efficient than RTU since each byte needs two characters. 
/barb4right Example : The byte 0X5B is encoded as two characters : 0x35 and 0x42 ( 0x35 ="5", and 0x42 ="B" in ASCII ). 
The format ( 10 bits ) for each byte in ASCII mode is : 
Coding Sy
stem:  Hexadecimal, ASCII characters 0–9, A–F 
One hexadecimal character contains 4-bits of data within each ASCII character of the message 
Bits per Byte:  1 start bit 
7 data bits, least significant bit sent first 
1 bit for parity completion; 
1 stop bit 
Even parity is required,  other modes ( odd parity, no parity ) may also be used.  In order to ensure a maximum compatibility with 
other products, it is recommended to support also No parity mode.  The default parity mode must  be Even parity. 
Remark : the use of no parity requires 2 stop bits.  
How Characters are Transmitted Serially : 
Each character or byte is sent in this order (left to right): 
Least Significant Bit (LSB) . . . Most Significant Bit (MSB) 
Start
With Parity Checking
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Par Stop
Figure 15: 
Bit Sequence in ASCII mode 
Devices may accept by configuration either Even, Odd, or No Parity checking.  If No Parity is implemented, an additional stop bit is 
transmitted to fill out the character frame : 
Start
Without Parity Checking
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Stop Stop
Figure 16: 
Bit Sequence in ASCII mode (specific case of No Parity) 
Frame Checking Field:  Longitudinal Redundancy Checking (LRC) 