MODBUS over serial line specification and implementation guide V1.02 Modbus.org    
Modbus.org http://www.modbus.org/ 17/44
Dec 20, 2006 
2.5.2.1 MODBUS Message ASCII Framing 
A MODBUS message is placed by the transmitting device into a frame that has a known beginning and ending point.  This allows 
devices that receive a new frame to begin at the start of the message, and to know when the message is completed.  Partial 
messages must be detected and errors must be set as a result. 
The address field of a message frame contains two characters. 
In ASCII mode, a message is delimited by specific characters as Start-of-frames and End-of-frames. A message must  start with a 
‘colon’ ( : ) character (ASCII 3A hex), and end with a ‘carriage return – line feed’ (CRLF) pair (ASCII 0D and 0A hex). 
Remark : The LF character can be changed using a specific MODBUS application command ( see MODBUS application protocol 
specification). 
The allowable characters transmitted for all other fields are hexadecimal 0–9, A–F (ASCII coded). The devices monitor the bus 
continuously for the ‘colon’ character.  When this character is received, each device decodes the next character until it detec ts the 
End-Of-Frame.  
Intervals of up to one second may elapse between characters within the message. Unless the user has configured a longer timeout , 
an interval greater than 1 second means an error has occurred.  Some Wide-Area-Network application may require a timeout in the  4 
to 5 second range. 
A typical message frame is shown below. 
Start Address Function Data LRC End
1 char
:
2 chars 2 chars 2 chars 2 chars
CR,LF
0 up to 2x252 char(s)
Figure 17: 
ASCII Message Frame 
Remark : Each data byte needs two characters for encoding.  Thus, to ensure compatibility at MODBUS application level between 
ASCII mode and RTU mode, the maximum data size for ASCII data field (2x252) is the double the maximum data size for RTU data 
field (252).  Consequently, the maximum size of a MODBUS ASCII frame is 513 characters. 
The ASCII framing requirements are synthesized in the following state diagram. Both "master" and "slave" points of view are 
expressed in the same drawing : 
Reception
Reception of ":"
character Reception of character
 / Concatenation of
character into
reception buffer
Waiting "End
of Frame"
Idle
Comment
If frame OK
/bright processing frame
If frame NOK
/bright delete entire frame
(ready to receive or to emit)
Reception of "LF" character
/ control frame (LRC, Parity,
Slave addr.)
Reception of ":"
character  /  Empty
reception buffer
Reception of "CR"
character
Reception of ":"
character  /  Empty
reception buffer
Emission
start
Emission Demand
Emission
Sending of “:”
Sending of
all characters
Emission End
Sending of  “CR”
Sending of  “LF”
Figure 18: 
ASCII Transmission mode State diagram 