MODBUS over serial line specification and implementation guide V1.02 Modbus.org    
Modbus.org http://www.modbus.org/ 18/44
Dec 20, 2006 
Some ex
planations about the above state diagram : 
/square4 "Idle" state is the normal state when neither emission nor reception is active. 
/square4 Each reception of a ":" character means a beginning of a new message.  If a message was in process of reception while receiving  
such a character, the current message is declared incomplete and it is discarded. A new reception buffer is then allocated. 
/square4 After detection of the end of frame, the LRC calculation and checking is completed. Afterwards the address field is analyzed to  
determine if the frame is for the device. If not the frame is discarded.  In order to reduce the reception processing time the 
address field can be analyzed as soon as it is reserved without waiting the end of frame.  
2.5.2.2 LRC Checking 
In ASCII mode, messages include an error–checking field that is based on a Longitudinal Redundancy Checking ( LRC) calculation 
that is performed on the message contents, exclusive of the beginning ‘colon’ and terminating CRLF pair characters. It is appli ed 
regardless of any parity checking method used for the individual characters of the message. 
The LRC field is one byte, containing an 8–bit binary value.  The LRC value is calculated by the device that emits, which appen ds the 
LRC to the message.  The device that receives calculates an LRC during receipt of the message, and compares the calculated valu e 
to the actual value it received in the LRC field.  If the two values are not equal, an error results. 
The LRC is calculated by adding together successive 8–bit bytes of the message, discarding any carries, and then two’s 
complementing the result.  It is performed on the bytes of the message,  before the encoding of each byte in the two  ASCII 
characters corresponding to the hexadecimal representation of each nibble.   The computation does not include the  'colon'   character
that begins the message, and does not include the CRLF pair at the end of the message.
The resulting LRC is ASCII encoded into two byt es and placed at the end of the ASCII mode frame before the CRLF. 
A detailed example of LRC generation is contained in Appendix B. 