MODBUS over serial line specification and implementation guide V1.02  Modbus.org    
Modbus.org http://www.modbus.org/ 19/44
Dec 20, 2006 
2.6 Error Checking Methods 
The security of standard MODBUS Serial Line is based on two kinds of error checking : 
/square4 Parity checking (even or odd) should be applied to each character. 
/square4 Frame checking (LRC or CRC) must be applied to the entire message.   
Both the character checking and message frame checking are generated in the device (master or slave) that emits and applied to the 
message contents before transmission.  The device (slave or master) checks each character and the entire message frame during 
receipt. 
The master is configured by the user to wait for a predetermined timeout interval ( Response time-out) before aborting the tran saction. 
This interval is set to be long enough for any slave to respond normally ( unicast request). If the slave detects a transmissio n error, the 
message will not be acted upon. The slave will not construct a response to the master. Thus the timeout will expire and allow t he 
master’s program to handle the error. Note that a message addressed to a nonexistent slave device will also cause a timeout. 
2.6.1 Parity Checking 
Users may configure devices for Even ( required) or Odd Parity checking, or for No Parity checking ( recommended). This will 
determine how the parity bit will be set in each character. 
If either Even or Odd Parity is specified, the quantity of 1 bits will be counted in the data portion of each character (seven data bits for 
ASCII mode, or eight for RTU). The parity bit will then be set to a 0 or 1 to result in an Even or Odd total of 1 bits. 
For example, these eight data bits are contained in an RTU character frame: 
1100 0101 
The total quantity of 1 bits in the frame is four. If Even Parity is used, the frame’s parity bit will be a 0, making the total quantity of 1 bits 
still an even number (four). If Odd Parity is used, the parity bit will be a 1, making an odd quantity (five). 
When the message is transmitted, the parity bit is calculated and applied to the frame of each character. The device that recei ves 
counts the quantity of 1 bits and sets an error if they are not the same as configured for that device (all devices on the MODB US Serial 
Line must be configured to use the same parity checking method). 
Note that parity checking can only detect an error if an odd number of bits are picked up or dropped in a character frame durin g 
transmission. For example, if Odd Parity checking is employed, and two 1 bits are dropped from a character containing three 1 b its, 
the result is still an odd count of 1 bits. 
If No Parity checking is specified, no parity bit is transmitted and no parity checking can be made. An additional stop bit is transmitted 
to fill out the character frame. 
2.6.2 Frame Checking 
Two kinds of frame checking is used depending on the transmission mode, RTU or ASCII. 
/square4 In RTU mode, messages include an error–checking field that is based on a Cyclical Redundancy Checking (CRC) method. The 
CRC field checks the contents of the entire message. It is applied regardless of any parity checking method used for the indivi dual 
characters of the message. 
/square4 In ASCII mode, messages include an error–checking field that is based on a Longitudinal Redundancy Checking (LRC) method. 
The LRC field checks the contents of the message, exclusive of the beginning ‘colon’ and ending CRLF pair. It is applied 
regardless of any parity checking method used for the individual characters of the message. 
The detailed information about error checking methods is contained in the previous sections. 