MODBUS over serial line specification and implementation guide V1.02  Modbus.org    
Modbus.org http://www.modbus.org/ 21/44
Dec 20, 2006 
3.3 Electrical Interfaces 
3.3.1 Multipoint Serial Bus Infrastructure 
Figure 19 gives a general overview of the serial bus infrastructure in a MODBUS multipoint Serial Line system. 
Slave n
D
R
ITr
LTITr
ITr
LT
Passive TAP
IDv
Slave 1
D
R
Master
IDv
D
R
ActiveTap
AUI
Slave 2
D
R Passive TAP
Figur
e 19 : Serial bus infrastructure 
A multipoint MODBUS Serial Line bus is made of a principal cable ( the Trunk), and possibly some derivation cables. 
Line terminations are necessary at each extremity of the trunk cable for impedance adaptation (see § "Two-Wire MODBUS Definitio n" 
& "Optional Four-Wire MODBUS Definition" for details). 
As shown in figure 19, different implementations may operate in the same MODBUS Serial Line system  :  
/square4 the device integrates the communication transceiver and is connected to the trunk using a Passive Tap and a derivation cable 
( case of Slave 1 and Master ) ;  
/square4 the device doesn't integrate the communication transceiver and is connected to the trunk using an Active Tap and a derivation 
cable (the active TAP integrates the transceiver) 
( case of Slave 2 ) ; 
/square4 the device is connected directly to the trunk cable, in a Daisy-Chain ( case of Slave n ) 
The following conventions are adopted : 
/square4 The interface with the trunk is named ITr  (Trunk Interface) 
/square4 The interface between the device and the Passive Tap is named IDv  (Derivation Interface) 
/square4 The interface between the device and the Active Tap is named AUI  (Attachment Unit Interface) 
Remarks : 
1. In some cases, the Tap may be connected directly to the IDv-socket or the AUI-socket of the device, without using a derivati on
cable.
2. A Tap may have several IDv sockets to connect several devices. Such a Tap is named Distributor when it is a passive one.
3. When using an active Tap, power supply of the Tap may be provided either via its AUI or ITr interface.
ITr and IDv interfaces are described in the following chapters (see § "Two-Wire MODBUS  DEFINITION" & "Four-Wire MODBUS  
DEFINITION"). 