MODBUS over serial line specification and implementation guide V1.02 Modbus.org    
Modbus.org http://www.modbus.org/ 27/44
Dec 20, 2006 
3.4 Multipoint System requirements 
For any
 EIA/ TIA-485 multipoint system, in either 2-wire or 4-wire configuration, the following requirements all apply. 
3.4.1 Maximum number of devices without repeater 
A figure of 32 dev
ices is always authorized on any RS485-MODBUS system without repeater.  
Depending of : 
- all the possible addresses,
- the figure of RS485 Unit Load used by the devices,
- and the line polarization in need be,
A RS485 system may implement a larger number of devices.  Some devices allow the implementation of a RS485-MODBUS serial line
with more than 32 devices, without repeater.
In this case these MODBUS devices must be documented to say how many of such devices are authorized without repeater.
The use of a repeater between two heavy loaded RS485-MODBUS is also possible. 
3.4.2 Topology 
An RS485-MODBUS configuration without repeater has one trunk cable, along which devices are connected, directly (daisy chaining ) 
or by short derivation cables.  
The trunk cable, also named “Bus”, can be long (see hereafter).  Its two ends must be connected on Line Terminations. 
The use of repeaters between several RS485-MODBUS is also possible. 
3.4.3 Length 
The end to end length of the trunk cable  must  be limited. The maximum length depends on the baud rate, the cable (Gauge, 
Capacitance or Characteristic Impedance), the number of loads on the daisy chain, and the network configuration (2-wire or 4-wire).  
For a maximum 9600 Baud Rate and AWG26 (or wider) gauge, the maximum length is 1000m. In the specific case shown in the figure 
22 ( 4 Wire cabling used as a 2 Wire cabling system) the maximum length must  be divided by two. 
The derivations must be short, never more than 20m. If a multi-port tap is used with n derivations, each one must  respect a maximum 
length of 40m divided by n.  
3.4.4 Grounding Arrangements 
The « Common » circuit ( Signal and optional Power Supply Common ) must  be connected directly to protective ground, preferably at 
one point only for the entire bus. Generally this point is to choose on the master device or on its Tap. 
3.4.5 Line Termination 
A reflection in a transmission line is the result of an impedance discontinuity that a travelling wave sees as it propagates do wn the line.  
To minimize the reflections from the end of the RS485-cable it is required  to place a Line Termination near each of the 2 Ends of the 
Bus. 
It is important that the line be terminated at both ends since the propagation is bi-directional, but it is not allowed to place more than 2 
LT on one passive D0-D1 balanced pair .  Never place any LT on a derivation cable. 