MODBUS over serial line specification and implementation guide V1.02  Modbus.org    
Modbus.org http://www.modbus.org/ 33/44
Dec 20, 2006 
4 Installation and Documentation 
4.1 Installation 
Product vendor should pay attention  to give to the user of a MODBUS System or MODBUS Devices all useful information to 
prevent them from any error in cabling or bad utilization of cabling accessories : 
- Some other Fieldbuses, CANopen  for example, use the same connector types ( D-shell, RJ45…) .
- Studies are conducted on Ethernet, with power supply on the same Balanced Pairs Cable.
- Some Products use for I/O circuits the same connector types ( D-shell, RJ45…).
On these connectors, for the most part, no foolproofing is available (polarizing notch or other implementation) . 
4.2 User Guide 
The User Guide of any MODBUS Device or Cabling System Component must  include in a non exhaustive manner one or two types of 
information: 
4.2.1 For any MODBUS Product : 
The following information should be documented :  
/square4 All the implemented requests. 
/square4 The operating modes. 
/square4 The visual diagnostics. 
/square4 The reachable registers and supported function codes. 
/square4 Installation rules. 
/square4 The required information in the following sections should also be documented : 
⇒ "Two-Wire MODBUS Definition" (to mention the Required Circuits) ;
⇒ "Optional Four-Wire MODBUS Definition" (to mention the Required Circuits) ;
⇒ "Line Polarization" (to mention a possible Need or an Implementation) ;
⇒ "Cables" (special care of crossed cables).
/square4 A specific indication relating to the devices addresses, is to be written in the form of an important warning :
"It is of great importance to ensure at the time of the procedure of devices addressing, that there is not two devices with the same 
address.  In such a case, an abnormal behavior of the whole serial bus can occur, the Master being then in the impossibility to  
communicate with all present slaves on the bus. " 
/square4 A "Getting Started" chapter is highly recommended, with the documented description of a typical application example, for an 
easy start. 
4.2.2 For a MODBUS Product with implemented Options : 
The different optional parameters must be clearly detailed :  
⇒ Optional serial Transmission mode ;
⇒ Optional Parity Checking ;
⇒ Optional Baud Rates ;
⇒ Optional Circuit(s) : Power Supply, Port Configuration ;
⇒ Optional Interface(s) ;
⇒ Maximum number of devices (without repeater) if greater than 32.