MODBUS over serial line specification and implementation guide V1.02 Modbus.org    
Modbus.org http://www.modbus.org/ 35/44
Dec 20, 2006 
6 Appendix 
6.1 Appendix A - Management of Serial Line Diagnostic Counters 
6.1.1 General description 
MODBUS Serial Line defines a list of diagnostic counters to allow performance and error management. 
These counters are accessible using the MODBUS application protocol and its Diagnostic function (function code 08).  
Each counter can be get by a sub-function code bound to the counter number.  All counters can be cleared using the sub-function  
code 0x0A. 
The format of the Diagnostic function is described in the MODBUS application protocol specification.  
Herein is the list of diagnostics and associated sub-function codes supported by a serial line device.   
Sub-
function 
code 
Counter  
number 
Hex Dec 
Counters Name Comments 
(for diagram below) 
0x0B 1 Return Bus Message Count Quantity of messages that the remote device has detected on the 
communications system since its last restart, clear counters operation, 
or power–up.  Messages with bad CRC are not taken into account. 
0x0C 2 Return Bus Communication Error 
Count 
Quantity of CRC errors encountered by the remote device since its last 
restart, clear counters operation, or power–up.  In case of an error 
detected on the character level, (overrun, parity error), or in case of a 
message length < 3 bytes, the receiving device is not able to calculate 
the CRC.  In such cases, this counter is also incremented. 
0x0D 3 Return Slave Exception Error Count Quantity of MODBUS exception error detected by the remote device 
since its last restart, clear counters operation, or power–up.  It 
comprises also the error detected in broadcast messages even if an 
exception message is not returned in this case.  
Exception errors are described and listed in "MODBUS Application 
Protocol Specification" document. 
0xOE 4 Return Slave Message Count Quantity of messages addressed to the remote device,  including 
broadcast messages, that the remote device has processed since its 
last restart, clear counters operation, or power–up. 
0x0F 5 Return Slave No Response Count Quantity of messages received by the remote device for which it 
returned no response (neither a normal response nor an exception 
response), since its last restart, clear counters operation, or power–up. 
Then, this counter counts the number of broadcast messages it has 
received. 
0x10 6 Return Slave NAK Count Quantity of messages addressed to the remote device for which it 
returned a Negative Acknowledge (NAK) exception response, since its 
last restart, clear counters operation, or power–up. Exception 
responses are described and listed in "MODBUS Application Protocol 
Specification" document. 
0x11 7 Return Slave Busy Count Quantity of messages addressed to the remote device for which it 
returned a Slave Device Busy exception response, since its last restart, 
clear counters operation, or power–up. Exception responses are 
described and listed in "MODBUS Application Protocol Specification" 
document 
0x12 8 Return Bus Character Overrun Count Quantity of messages addressed to the remote device that it could not
handle due to a character overrun condition, since its last restart, clea r
counters operation, or power–up. A character overrun is caused by data 
characters arriv
ing at the port faster than they can be stored, or by the
loss of a character due to a hardware malfunction. 