NXP Semiconductors UM11495
PN7160 NFC controller
Figure 12. Data Message Exchange
3.2.3  Interfaces
An NCI Module may contain one Interface. An Interface defines how a DH can communicate via NCI with a
Remote NFC Endpoint or NFCEE. Each Interface is defined to support specific protocols and can only be used
for those protocols (the majority of Interfaces support exactly one protocol). NCI defines two types of Interfaces:
RF Interfaces and NFCEE Interfaces.
Protocols used to communicate with a Remote NFC Endpoint are called RF Protocols. Protocols used to
communicate with an NFCEE are called NFCEE Protocols.
An NFCEE Interface has a one-to-one relationship to an NFCEE Protocol, whereas there might be multiple RF
Interfaces for one RF Protocol. The later allows NCI to support different splits of the protocol implementation
between the NFCC and DH. An NCI implementation on an NFCC should include those RF Interfaces that match
the functionality implemented on the NFCC.
Interfaces must be activated before they can be used and they must be deactivated when they are no longer
used.
An Interface can define its own configuration parameters and Control Messages, but most importantly it must
define how the payload of a Data Message maps to the payload of the respective RF or NFCEE Protocol and, in
case of RF Communication, whether the Static RF Connection and/or Dynamic Logical Connections are used to
exchange those Data Messages between the DH and the NFCC.
3.2.4  RF Communication
RF Communication is started by configuring and running the RF Discovery process. The RF Discovery is an
NCI module that discovers and enumerates Remote NFC Endpoints.
For each Remote NFC Endpoint, the RF Discovery Process provides the DH with the information about the
Remote NFC Endpoint gathered during the RF Discovery Process. One part of this information is the RF
Protocol that is used to communicate with the Remote NFC Endpoint. During RF Discovery configuration, the
DH must configure a mapping that associates an RF Interface for each RF Protocol. If only a single Remote
NFC Endpoint is detected during one discovery cycle, the RF Interface for this Endpoint is automatically
UM11495 All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers. © 2025 NXP B.V. All rights reserved.
User manual Rev. 1.8 — 2 June 2025 Document feedback
13 / 147