NXP Semiconductors UM11495
PN7160 NFC controller
activated. If there are multiple Remote NFC Endpoints detected in Poll Mode, the DH can select the Endpoint it
wants to communicate with. This selection also triggers the activation of the mapped Interface.
Once an RF Interface has been activated, the DH can communicate with the Remote NFC Endpoint using
the activated RF Interface. An activated RF Interface can be deactivated by either the DH or the NFCC (e.g.
on behalf of the Remote NFC Endpoint). However, each RF Interface can define which of those methods are
allowed. Depending on which part of the protocol stack is executed on the DH there are different deactivation
options. For example, if a protocol command to tear down the communication is handled on the DH, the DH
will deactivate the RF Interface. If such a command is handled on the NFCC, the NFCC will deactivate the
Interface.
This specification describes the possible Control Message sequences for RF Communication in the form of a
state machine.
3.2.5  NFCEE Communication
The DH can learn about the NFCEEs connected to the NFCC by using the NFCEE Discovery module. During
NFCEE Discovery the NFCC assigns an identifier for each NFCEE. When the DH wants to communicate with
an NFCEE, it needs to open a Logical Connection to the NFCEE (unless this logical connection is static) using
the corresponding identifier and specifying the NFCEE Protocol to be used.
Opening a Logical Connection to an NFCEE automatically activates the NFCEE Interface associated to the
protocol specified. When the NFCEE interface is static, it is available as soon as the NFCEE discovery process
is completed. As there is always a one-to-one relationship between an NFCEE Protocol and Interface, there is
no mapping step required (different as for the RF Communication).
Once the interface has been activated, the DH can communicate with the NFCEE using the activated Interface.
Closing the connection to an NFCEE Interface deactivates that NFCEE Interface.
NCI also includes functionality to allow the DH to enable or disable the communication between an NFCEE and
the NFCC.
3.2.6  Identifiers
The NFCC might only be used by the DH but also by the NFCEEs in the device (in such a case the NFCC
is a shared resource). NFCEEs differ in the way they are connected to the NFCC and the protocol used on
such a link determines how an NFCEE can use the NFCC. For example, some protocols allow the NFCEE to
provide its own configuration for RF parameters to the NFCC (similar to the NCI Configuration Parameters for
RF Discovery) in other cases the NFCEE might not provide such information.
NFCCs can have different implementation in how they deal with multiple configurations from DH and NFCEEs.
They might for example switch between those configurations so that only one is active at a time or they
might attempt to merge the different configurations. During initialization NFCC informs the DH whether the
configuration can only be under DH control or if the NFCC supports configuration by NFCEEs as well.
NCI includes a module, called Listen Mode Routing, with which the DH can define where to route received data
when the device has been activated in Listen Mode. The Listen Mode Routing allows the DH to maintain a
routing table on the NFCC. Routing can be done based on the technology or protocol of the incoming traffic or
based on application identifiers in case ISO/IEC7816-4 APDU commands are used on top of ISO-DEP.
In addition, NCI enables the DH to get informed if communication between an NFCEE and a Remote NFC
Endpoint occurs.
UM11495 All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers. © 2025 NXP B.V. All rights reserved.
User manual Rev. 1.8 — 2 June 2025 Document feedback
14 / 147