NXP Semiconductors UM11495
PN7160 NFC controller
• Message Type (MT)
Refer to Section 3.3 for details of the MT field.
• Packet Boundary Flag (PBF)
Refer to Section 3.3 for details of the PBF field.
• Connection Identifier (Conn ID)
The Connection Identifier (Conn ID) SHALL be used to indicate the previously setup Logical Connection to
which this data belongs. The Conn ID is a 4-bit field containing a value from 0 to 15.
• Payload Length (L)
The Payload Length field indicates the number of Payload bytes present. The Payload Length field is an 8-bit
field containing a value from 0 to 255.
3.3.4  Segmentation and Reassembly
The Segmentation and Reassembly functionality SHALL be supported by both the DH and the NFCC.
Segmentation and Reassembly of Messages SHALL be performed independently for Control Packets and Data
Packets of each Logical Connection.
Any NCI Transport Mapping is allowed to define a fixed Maximum Transmission Unit (MTU) size in bytes. If
such a Mapping is defined and used, then if either DH or NFCC needs to transmit a Message (either Control or
Data Message) that would generate a Packet (including Packet Header) larger than the MTU, the Segmentation
and Reassembly (SAR) feature SHALL be used on the Message.
The following rules apply to segmenting Control Messages:
• For each segment of a Control Message, the header of the Control Packet SHALL contain the same MT, GID
and OID values.
• From DH to NFCC: the Segmentation and Reassembly feature SHALL be used when sending a Command
Message from the DH to the NFCC that would generate a Control Packet with a payload larger than the “Max
Control Packet Payload Size” reported by the NFCC at initialization. Each segment of a Command Message
except for the last SHALL contain a payload with the length of “Max Control Packet Payload Size”.
• From NFCC to DH: when an NFCC sends a Control Message to the DH, regardless of the length, it MAY
segment the Control Message into smaller Control Packets if needed for internal optimization purposes.
The following rules apply to segmenting Data Messages:
• For each segment of a Data Message, the header of the Data Packet SHALL contain the same MT and Conn
ID.
• From DH to NFCC: if a Data Message payload size exceeds the Max Data Packet Payload Size, of the
connection then the Segmentation and Reassembly feature SHALL be used on the Data Message.
• From NFCC to DH: when an NFCC sends a Data Message to the DH, regardless of the payload length
it MAY segment the Data Message into smaller Data Packets for any internal reason, for example for
transmission buffer optimization.
3.4  NCI 2.0 features
Here is a list of features which are supported in NCI 2.0.
Item No. Description NCI 2.0
1 Backward compatibility to NCI 1.0 (Startup sequence: Reset and
Init)
Not supported
Table 3. Features supported in NCI 2.0
UM11495 All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers. © 2025 NXP B.V. All rights reserved.
User manual Rev. 1.8 — 2 June 2025 Document feedback
17 / 147