NXP Semiconductors UM11495
PN7160 NFC controller
7.2.2  Access through the aggregated Frame RF interface
NCI 2.0 allows the data exchange with tags T3T using the Frame Aggregated RF Interface Extension.
Pre-requisite: the Frame Aggregated RF interface extension is only available after activation of the Frame RF
Interface with protocol T3T. Here is the command with the parameters to activate the Frame Aggregated RF
interface mechanism:
GID OID Main Parameters Values
Extension Frame Aggregated RF Interface Extension
Start parameter length 2
0001b 0x0A
Start parameter
1 byte retry count (0-7)
Note:  The aggregation by the NFCC of several responses
from the RF End Point is not supported. So if bit 7 of the first
bye of the start parameter of the RF_INTF_EXT_START_CMD
is set to 1b, it will be ignored by the NFCC.
1 byte Command Timeout
Table 62. RF_INTF_EXT_START_CMD
After the DH has sent an aggregated list of commands via an NCI data packet, the NFCC will proceed the list
and execute all command one after the other starting from the first one in the aggregated list of commands.
After processing a T3T command to the RF End point, the NFCC forwards immediately to the DH T3T response
received from the RF End Point and processes the next command. If the DH does not fetch T3T response, the
processing of T3T command will be stalled until the previous T3T response is successfully read by the DH.
Figure 45. Messaging during Frame Aggregated Rf Interface extension
The NFCC does not support NCI chaining in NCI data packet after the Frame Aggregated RF interface
extension has been started.
Note:  If the DH sends an NCI data packet with the PBF bit set to one, the NCI data packet will be rejected by
the NFCC.
If the DH needs to send a collection of commands which does not fit a single NCI data packet payload capacity,
the commands shall be subdivided per set of commands so that each set fit a single NCI data packet payload
capacity.
UM11495 All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers. © 2025 NXP B.V. All rights reserved.
User manual Rev. 1.8 — 2 June 2025 Document feedback
64 / 147