NXP Semiconductors UM11495
PN7160 NFC controller
Figure 52. NFC Forum+ profile (when there is no card/tag in the field)
Note: the transition from the Poll NFC-A Active phase to the Poll NFC-A (passive) is done through an RF field
OFF/ON sequence.
For more details concerning the different phases duration, guard time, Bail-out, please refer to the configuration
section (Section 11.1) where all these parameters are defined.
10.4  [PN7160-NCI] extension: Low Power Card Detector (LPCD) Mode
10.4.1  Description
The Low-Power Card Detector is an NXP proprietary extension, which is applied in case the DH wants to
reduce the power consumption.
The concept is to avoid using the Technology Detection Activity as defined in [ACTIVITY], which implies to
generate an RF Field for several tens of milliseconds and to send technology-specific request commands to
see if there is a Card/Tag in the field to respond. The more technologies the PN7160 is configured to detect, the
longer the RF Field is generated and the higher the current consumption.
The LPCD is based on another concept, which only relies on the antenna characteristics, not on valid
responses from a Card/Tag. Indeed, the antenna impedance is influenced by the Card/tag which may enter
into its proximity, due to the magnetic coupling between the 2 antennas. The LPCD is therefore monitoring the
antenna impedance, to see if there is a significant variation which is interpreted as being caused by a Card/Tag
being in proximity.
To achieve that, the LPCD periodically generates very short pulses of RF Field, without any modulation, and
measures some antenna characteristics during this pulse. The time between these RF pulses is defined by the
TOTAL_DURATION parameter, as specified for the RF Discovery in [NCI].
When a Card/Tag enters the field, there is an antenna impedance variation. If this variation is higher than a
pre-defined threshold, the default Technology Detection profile (NFC Forum, or EMVCo, see next sections)
UM11495 All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers. © 2025 NXP B.V. All rights reserved.
User manual Rev. 1.8 — 2 June 2025 Document feedback
84 / 147