NXP Semiconductors UM11495
PN7160 NFC controller
Legal information
Definitions
Draft — A draft status on a document indicates that the content is still
under internal review and subject to formal approval, which may result
in modifications or additions. NXP Semiconductors does not give any
representations or warranties as to the accuracy or completeness of
information included in a draft version of a document and shall have no
liability for the consequences of use of such information.
Disclaimers
Limited warranty and liability — Information in this document is believed
to be accurate and reliable. However, NXP Semiconductors does not give
any representations or warranties, expressed or implied, as to the accuracy
or completeness of such information and shall have no liability for the
consequences of use of such information. NXP Semiconductors takes no
responsibility for the content in this document if provided by an information
source outside of NXP Semiconductors.
In no event shall NXP Semiconductors be liable for any indirect, incidental,
punitive, special or consequential damages (including - without limitation -
lost profits, lost savings, business interruption, costs related to the removal
or replacement of any products or rework charges) whether or not such
damages are based on tort (including negligence), warranty, breach of
contract or any other legal theory.
Notwithstanding any damages that customer might incur for any reason
whatsoever, NXP Semiconductors’ aggregate and cumulative liability
towards customer for the products described herein shall be limited in
accordance with the Terms and conditions of commercial sale of NXP
Semiconductors.
Right to make changes — NXP Semiconductors reserves the right to
make changes to information published in this document, including without
limitation specifications and product descriptions, at any time and without
notice. This document supersedes and replaces all information supplied prior
to the publication hereof.
Suitability for use — NXP Semiconductors products are not designed,
authorized or warranted to be suitable for use in life support, life-critical or
safety-critical systems or equipment, nor in applications where failure or
malfunction of an NXP Semiconductors product can reasonably be expected
to result in personal injury, death or severe property or environmental
damage. NXP Semiconductors and its suppliers accept no liability for
inclusion and/or use of NXP Semiconductors products in such equipment or
applications and therefore such inclusion and/or use is at the customer’s own
risk.
Applications — Applications that are described herein for any of these
products are for illustrative purposes only. NXP Semiconductors makes no
representation or warranty that such applications will be suitable for the
specified use without further testing or modification.
Customers are responsible for the design and operation of their
applications and products using NXP Semiconductors products, and NXP
Semiconductors accepts no liability for any assistance with applications or
customer product design. It is customer’s sole responsibility to determine
whether the NXP Semiconductors product is suitable and fit for the
customer’s applications and products planned, as well as for the planned
application and use of customer’s third party customer(s). Customers should
provide appropriate design and operating safeguards to minimize the risks
associated with their applications and products.
NXP Semiconductors does not accept any liability related to any default,
damage, costs or problem which is based on any weakness or default
in the customer’s applications or products, or the application or use by
customer’s third party customer(s). Customer is responsible for doing all
necessary testing for the customer’s applications and products using NXP
Semiconductors products in order to avoid a default of the applications
and the products or of the application or use by customer’s third party
customer(s). NXP does not accept any liability in this respect.
Terms and conditions of commercial sale — NXP Semiconductors
products are sold subject to the general terms and conditions of commercial
sale, as published at https://www.nxp.com/profile/terms, unless otherwise
agreed in a valid written individual agreement. In case an individual
agreement is concluded only the terms and conditions of the respective
agreement shall apply. NXP Semiconductors hereby expressly objects to
applying the customer’s general terms and conditions with regard to the
purchase of NXP Semiconductors products by customer.
Export control — This document as well as the item(s) described herein
may be subject to export control regulations. Export might require a prior
authorization from competent authorities.
Suitability for use in non-automotive qualified products — Unless
this document expressly states that this specific NXP Semiconductors
product is automotive qualified, the product is not suitable for automotive
use. It is neither qualified nor tested in accordance with automotive testing
or application requirements. NXP Semiconductors accepts no liability for
inclusion and/or use of non-automotive qualified products in automotive
equipment or applications.
In the event that customer uses the product for design-in and use in
automotive applications to automotive specifications and standards,
customer (a) shall use the product without NXP Semiconductors’ warranty
of the product for such automotive applications, use and specifications, and
(b) whenever customer uses the product for automotive applications beyond
NXP Semiconductors’ specifications such use shall be solely at customer’s
own risk, and (c) customer fully indemnifies NXP Semiconductors for any
liability, damages or failed product claims resulting from customer design and
use of the product for automotive applications beyond NXP Semiconductors’
standard warranty and NXP Semiconductors’ product specifications.
HTML publications — An HTML version, if available, of this document is
provided as a courtesy. Definitive information is contained in the applicable
document in PDF format. If there is a discrepancy between the HTML
document and the PDF document, the PDF document has priority.
Translations — A non-English (translated) version of a document, including
the legal information in that document, is for reference only. The English
version shall prevail in case of any discrepancy between the translated and
English versions.
Security — Customer understands that all NXP products may be subject to
unidentified vulnerabilities or may support established security standards or
specifications with known limitations. Customer is responsible for the design
and operation of its applications and products throughout their lifecycles
to reduce the effect of these vulnerabilities on customer’s applications
and products. Customer’s responsibility also extends to other open and/or
proprietary technologies supported by NXP products for use in customer’s
applications. NXP accepts no liability for any vulnerability. Customer should
regularly check security updates from NXP and follow up appropriately.
Customer shall select products with security features that best meet rules,
regulations, and standards of the intended application and make the
ultimate design decisions regarding its products and is solely responsible
for compliance with all legal, regulatory, and security related requirements
concerning its products, regardless of any information or support that may be
provided by NXP.
NXP has a Product Security Incident Response Team (PSIRT) (reachable
at PSIRT@nxp.com) that manages the investigation, reporting, and solution
release to security vulnerabilities of NXP products.
NXP B.V. — NXP B.V. is not an operating company and it does not distribute
or sell products.
UM11495 All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers. © 2025 NXP B.V. All rights reserved.
User manual Rev. 1.8 — 2 June 2025 Document feedback
139 / 147