10
CAN Newsletter 2/2024
NMEA 2000 devices and implementations
There is a lot of devices available on the market that claim to 
be NMEA 2000 compatible devices in some way. However, 
in reality most of these devices do not actually meet all of the 
requirements of NMEA 2000. There is also a large number 
of open-source and private projects available online, which 
aim to integrate into NMEA 2000. Again, these projects do 
not support all of the requirements of NMEA 2000. When 
a device is a NMEA 2000 certified device, it means that it 
provides certain software services via the protocol and also 
the hardware meets certain requirements (e.g. DC and AC 
isolation).
Benefits of NMEA 2000 product certification
Product certification guarantees a certain level of quality 
and interoperability for NMEA 2000 networks by ensuring 
that a device supports a mandatory set of NMEA 2000 
protocol services and hardware requirements. For device 
manufacturers, this means that they can state that their 
product is NMEA 2000 certified and use the NMEA 2000 logo 
in their marketing.
The NMEA 2000 product certification process partly 
consists of automated software tests and partly of a self-
certification process to check on the hardware and other 
requirements. Both are specified in Appendix C of the NMEA 
2000 specification package available from the NMEA.
Automated tests are specified in Appendix C3 and 
use the bench setup shown in Figure 2. It uses a CAN CC 
interface by Kvaser as the other device on the network, which 
connects to the Device Under Test (DUT) via a terminated 
bench-based CAN CC network. The NMEA 2000 certification 
tool is used on a Windows PC and provides instructions for 
initial conditions of each test. After setup, all of the NMEA 
2000 message exchange is started by a press of a button.
Appendix C2 of the NMEA 2000 specification package 
is a self-certification process and takes the user through a 
set of hardware tests and checklist items to ensure that the 
product meets the requirements. These include such aspects 
as: 
 ◆ Include measurements of DC or AC isolation between 
the NMEA 2000 connector and any other I/O that may be 
present on the device.
Figure 2: Setup for NMEA 2000 automated software testing 
(Source: Warwick Control Technologies)
Engineering
 ◆ Declaration of storage and operational temperatures.
 ◆ Details of CAN signal timing.
Companies wishing to develop NMEA 2000 devices 
can carry out the certification of the product to NMEA 2000 
themselves by purchasing the NMEA 2000 certification tool 
from the NMEA. An alternative route is to benefit from the 
experience and guidance from the team at Warwick Control 
Technologies with their NMEA 2000 conformance and 
product certification services.
Whichever route is chosen, a Manufacturer Code 
(unique to company) and Product Code (unique to product) 
must be obtained from the NMEA.
Certification service
The main reason why companies use the conformance and 
product certification services from Warwick, is to benefit from 
the company’s expertise and experience. In general, there 
are two levels of service available:
 ◆ Pre-conformance test: This is recommended for 
customers who need to check the main software 
conformance to the NMEA 2000 communication 
requirements and the CAN signalling of a prototype 
device. This can also be extended to look at NMEA 2000 
hardware requirements if a customer is not confident in its 
hardware design.
 ◆ Full product certification: This is recommended for 
customers who think that their device is ready to go for 
full product certification with the NMEA. This includes a 
check of both software and hardware of the device.
The benefit of engaging Warwick earlier in the project and 
using the pre-conformance test service is that the developer 
will get early advice on issues that could delay development, 
increase project costs, and delay the product release date. 
The general benefits of the engagement include:
 ◆ Engaged engineers are experienced with the NMEA 
2000.
 ◆ Know how to analyse the test failures.
 ◆ Tests provided in addition to those required by the NMEA, 
therefore helping to provide a high level of product for 
customers.
Common issues
A common misunderstanding is that NMEA 2000 is simply 
the SAE J1939 with parameters for marine applications 
instead of those for trucks. From the experience of 
Warwick Control Technologies, some companies simply 
do this and somehow obtain the details of the PGNs  
that they need from the Internet. When these are put through 
the software tests that are executed by the official NMEA 
2000 certification tool, this often results in many failures.
There are also many commonly seen issues that lead 
to a failure and the need for re-testing. These are not always 
obvious initially and include such aspects as:
 ◆ Sample point: The requirement is that it should be set 
between 85 % and 90 %.  However, often values of  
75 % or less are used. This is often due to the default 
setting in the example source code that companies new 
to CAN have obtained for implementation of their  
low-level CAN drivers.