 ◆ Automatic retransmission: In early implementations 
of CAN, the automatic retransmission of a CAN frame 
upon corruption was mandatory. This became an option 
when Time Triggered CAN was introduced. To pass the 
software tests for NMEA 2000, automatic retransmissions 
should be enabled. This option is often disabled by 
default in the CAN drivers.
 ◆ AC/DC isolation of NMEA 2000 connector: The pins in 
the NMEA 2000 connector need to be isolated from other 
I/Os. If a device is repurposed from another application, 
often the isolation does not meet the NMEA 2000 
requirements.
 ◆ Use of proprietary PGNs: The approach should be 
where possible to use an already available PGN from the 
standard, even if not all fields are needed. The unneeded 
fields can be set to “unavailable”. Proprietary PGNs 
should only be needed when there is not a standardized 
PGN available for the device’s purpose. The NMEA does 
strongly encourage companies in this situation to get 
involved in the standardisation of new PGNs.
 ◆ Termination: Often a device is being repurposed 
from another CAN application to NMEA 2000 and 
may have a termination inside the device. The original 
application is sometimes one that uses a PCB populated 
termination resistor in the device. For NMEA 2000 
applications, a device may not have a termination 
resistor. The termination resistor can only be a harness-
fitted component at each end of the backbone network 
providing two terminations in total.
Author
Dr. Chris Quigley
Warwick Control Technologies
enquiries@warwickcontrol.com
www.warwickcontrol.com
Final word
Whilst conformance testing and NMEA 2000 product 
certification ensure that a device meets the protocol 
requirements, they do not ensure interoperability with other 
devices. It is part of the testing regime required for a NMEA 
2000 product.
The simpler devices usually are quite straightforward. 
However, vessels tend to have a multi-function display 
(MFD) for access to the information from NMEA 2000 
devices and to control aspects of the vessel. This is one 
of the more complex devices on the vessel. Entertainment 
head units and remote controllers are other examples of  
complex devices needing to integrate with the vessel MFD  
devices and can often be challenging. Interoperability 
of new devices with the more complex devices is not  
guaranteed by the NMEA 2000 product certification  
process and therefore additional testing is recommended.   t
BY ENGINEERS, 
FOR ENGINEERS
Join us on this journey 
kvaser.com
We were founded by engineers for engineers, and take 
pride in making CAN interfaces that work ‘out of the box’.
As connectivity in the world expands, so do we.
We are expanding our oﬀ  erings beyond CAN to other 
types of connectivity, creating a world of possibilities.
