Local group
Local Controller
CS00
Charging Station
CS01
Charging Station
CS02
Charging Station
CS03
CSMS
WebSocket
ws://controller.example.local/ocpp/CS01
WebSocket
ws://controller.example.local/ocpp/CS02
WebSocket
ws://controller.example.local/ocpp/CS03
WebSocket
ws://csms.example.com/ocpp/CS00
WebSocket
ws://csms.example.com/ocpp/CS01
WebSocket
ws://csms.example.com/ocpp/CS02
WebSocket
ws://csms.example.com/ocpp/CS03
Figure 5. Local Controller WebSocket Connections
6.3. Connection loss
Whenever one or more WebSocket connections between CSMS and the Local Controller are lost, the Local Controller SHALL close
all corresponding WebSockets to the Charging Stations that are connected to it, unless the Local Controller is capable of
responding to Charging Station requests, and forwards transaction-related requests to the CSMS once the connection is restored.
This is needed to force the Charging Station to queue messages as it would have done if it would have been connected to the
CSMS directly and would have lost the connection to that CSMS.
Whenever the connection between a Charging Station and the Local Controller is lost, the Local Controller SHALL close the
WebSocket connection it has for the Charging Station to the CSMS. This is needed to let the CSMS know the Charging Station is
offline and no CSMS initiated messages can be sent to it.
6.4. Local Controller initiated messages
The Local Controller SHALL relay any Charging Station initiated message to the CSMS (and vice versa).
Since the Local Controller can also initiate its own messages to the Charging Station(s), a Local Controller SHALL take care of the
following:
1. If a Local Controller sends its own messages to a Charging Station, it SHALL guarantee that its messages have IDs that do
not collide with IDs used by the CSMS, now and in the future. This can be done by either assigning a range of numbers to
the Local Controller to use (and the CSMS to skip), or by using UUIDs/GUIDs.
2. Replies to messages from the Charging Station to messages initiated by the Local Controller SHALL NOT be sent to the
CSMS.
6.5. Local Controller Security
For the local controller, the normal OCPP security mechanisms will be used, as described in [OCPP2.1-PART2] , part A. Security. All
security profiles described there MAY be used when a Local Controller is deployed. The security section (part A) only describes the
roles of the CSMS, and Charging Station. When a local controller is used, the security specification SHALL be interpreted as follows:
• In the connection from the Charging Station to the Local Controller, the Charging Station SHALL act as the Charging Station,
and the Local Controller SHALL act as the CSMS. When TLS is used, the Local Controller SHALL be the TLS server, and the
Charging Station SHALL be the TLS client.
• In the connection from the Local Controller to the CSMS, the Local Controller SHALL act as the Charging Station, and the
CSMS SHALL acts as the CSMS. When TLS is used, the CSMS SHALL be the TLS server, and the Local Controller SHALL be
the TLS client.
When TLS with Client Side Certificates is used, the Local Controller SHALL have both a CSMS Certificate, and a Charging Station
certificate (see [OCPP2.1-PART2] Part A - Keys used in OCPP), as it can function in both roles. These certificates SHALL be unique
to the Local Controller. The Local Controller SHALL NOT store the Charging Station certificates of the attached Charging Stations. It
SHALL also NOT store the CSMS Certificate of the CSMS. These certificates SHALL be kept private on their respective owners. The
Local Controller SHALL only use its own certificates for setting up the TLS connections.
It SHALL be possible to distinguish the Local Controller from the CSMS based on the URL in the CSMS Certificate. Because the
Local Controller is placed in the field, there is a risk that its certificates get stolen from it, e.g. by an attack on the hardware. In that
case, it SHALL only be possible to use the CSMS Certificate on the Local Controller to communicate with the attached Charging
Stations, not with any other Charging Stations in the infrastructure.
The TLS connections terminate on the Local Controller. So, the Local Controller can both read and manipulate data sent between
Edition 2, 2025-12-03
OCPP 2.1 Edition 2 - © Open Charge Alliance 2025 21/28 Part 4 - JSON over WebSockets implementation guide