 2009 - 2025  Microchip Technology Inc. and its subsidiaries DS60001271B-page 1
®
MARCH 2025
OS81092
MOST50 Intelligent Network Interface Controller
Features
• Complete MOST ® Network Interface on a single 
chip
• Embedded MOST Network management
— Network protection mode
— Hardware and application watchdog timer
— Intelligent muting
• Media Local Bus (MediaLB ®) Port
— Supports all MOST data types
— Eases inter-chip communication and streaming
— MediaLB 3-pin interface at speeds up to 1024 Fs
— Legacy MediaLB 5-pin interface at speeds up to 
512Fs
• Control Port supports I 2C format for control mes-
sages and asynchronous packets
• Streaming Port supports up to four serial interfaces 
for synchronous data
• Dedicated application reset output
• Persistent memory for storing internal INIC values 
during low-power operation (MOST Sleep Mode)
• One-Time Programmable (OTP) memory for initial 
configuration settings (INIC Configuration String)
• General Purpose I/O (GPIO) Port
• Operating voltages 3.3/1.8 V
• 48-pin QFN package with exposed pad for 
extended temperature support
Applications
• MOST50 Electrical Networks (MOST50 ePHY)
General Description
The OS81092 is a highly integrated Intelligent Network
Interface Controller (INIC) for the 50 Mbps MOST Net-
work (MOST50) with an electrical physical layer (ePHY)
optimized for unshielded twisted pair (UTP) copper wire.
INIC provides encapsulation of all low-level functions
necessary to develop a MOST-compliant device, signifi-
cantly simplifying MOST implementation in a node.
Supervision of the application is also provided, including
a protection mode that is entered when an application is
not present (i.e. start-up) or the External Host Controller
(EHC) malfunctions. This protection mode prevents
application malfunctions from influencing the integrity of
the network and the system.
INIC includes the INIC Software Stack , which provides
MOST-compliant real-time b ehavior. Integration of the
INIC Software Stack significantly relieves the EHC from
real-time processing tasks.
INIC makes a MOST device accessible according to the
rules of the MOST Specification, even without participa-
tion from the EHC. When the EHC is engaged, a mes-
sage-based interface, as opposed to a register-based
interface, is available for communication with INIC. Con-
figuration is encapsulated within a Function Block
(FBlock INIC) which allows the EHC to manage INIC in
the same way as other functions in the system.
FIGURE: OS81092 BLOCK DIAGRAM
INIC Processor
INIC Software Stack
INIC:
FBlock
NBMIN:
FBlock
Control Port
MediaLB Port
Streaming Port
Network Port
Power Monitor
& Control
Debug Port
Clock Manager
OS81092 INIC
GPIO Port