OS81092
DS60001271B-page 2  2009 - 2025  Microchip Technology Inc. and its subsidiaries
ORDERING INFORMATION
Order Number Package
OS81092AM-rrr-vvvvvv 48-pin QFN
OS81092AMR-rrr-vvvvvv 48-pin QFN, Tape and Reel
rrr - Product Revision Code
vvvvvv - Firmware Revision Code
TO OUR VALUED CUSTOMERS
It is our intention to provide our valued customers with  the best documentation possible to ensure successful use of
your Microchip products. To this end, we will continue to improve our publications to better suit your needs. Our pub-
lications will be refined and enhanced as new volumes and updates are introduced. 
If you have any questions or comments regarding this p ublication, please contact th e Marketing Communications
Department via E-mail at docerrors@microchip.com. We welcome your feedback.
Most Current Data Sheet
To obtain the most up-to-date version of this data sheet, please register at our Worldwide Web site at:
http://www.microchip.com
You can determine the version of a data sheet by examining its literature number found on the bottom outside corner
of any page. The last character of the literature number  is the version number, (e.g., DS30000000A is version A of
document DS30000000).
Errata
An errata sheet, describing minor operational differences from the data sheet and recommended workarounds, may
exist for current devices. As device/documentation issues become known to us, we will publish an errata sheet. The
errata will specify the revision of silicon and revision of document to which it applies.
To determine if an errata sheet exists for a particular device, please check with one of the following:
• Microchip’s Worldwide Web site; http://www.microchip.com
• Your local Microchip sales office (see last page)
When contacting a sales office, please specify which device, revision of silicon and data sheet (include literature num-
ber) you are using.
Customer Notification System
Register on our web site at www.microchip.com to receive the most current information on all of our products.