 2009 - 2025  Microchip Technology Inc. and its subsidiaries DS60001271B-page 11
OS81092
4.0 OVERVIEW
The OS81092 is a network transceiver device belonging to the Microchip Intelligent Network Interface Controller (INIC)
family. The OS81092 INIC (also known as INIC50) supports an Electrical Physical (ePHY) interface, optimized for
unshielded twisted pair (UTP) copper wire. A network data rate of 128 bytes/frame is supported (49.2 Mbps - also known
as MOST50) when interfacing to a Media Oriented Systems Transport (MOST) Network. Any reference to MOST in this
data sheet implies MOST compliance at the MOST50 data rate.
All relevant network management functions are handled on-chip, providing a complete system interface to the physical
layer components. Minimal additional components are required due to the high-level of integration. An on-chip PLL with
ultra-low jitter guarantees accurate audio and video transmission and clock recovery over a wide frequency range.
A typical MOST Network node consists of the front-end circuitry connected to the MOST Network, the OS81092 to han-
dle the low-level protocols, and an External Host Controller (EHC) for the mid- to high-level functions. This architecture
eliminates the need for the user to implement the lower levels of the MOST Specification [1] protocol, thereby drastically
shrinking development time. Network management functions are off-loaded from the programmer, allowing full concen-
tration on the application being developed. Figure 4-1 illustrates the OS81092, with the protocol stack implementation.
FIGURE 4-1: INIC HARDWARE/SYSTEM OVERVIEW
4.1 MOST50 Network
To minimize costs, the MOST Network supports a peer-to-peer methodology, eliminating excessive hardware overhead
such as a hub (although hub-based architectures can also be implemented). In addition to handling network interface
and communication management functions, the OS81092 INIC also handles all of the important low-level network man-
agement functions such as node position sensing (Plug-and-Play), network delay detection, start up and shut down.
Other features include: error reporting, fail-safe operation, and channel allocation. Placing these features in hardware
off-loads the EHC, allowing it to focus on higher-level network functions.
GPIO Port
 
 
MOST Network
(Electrical)
Clock 
Manager
MediaLB
Port
EHC Application
2: Data-Link 
Layer
1: Physical 
Layer
ISO Model
6: Presentation 
Layer
3: Network 
Layer
4: Transport  
Layer
5: Session  
Layer
7: Application 
Layer
Network
Power 
Supply
+12 V
GND
Power
Monitor
& Control
Network Port
Transceiver
External Host Controller
(EHC)
Control 
Port
INIC SW Stack
Streaming 
Port
INIC 
Processor
ePHY Front 
End Circuitry
INIC SW
Stack
INIC:
FBlock
NBMIN:
FBlock
OS81092 INIC