OS81092
DS60001271B-page 12  2009 - 2025  Microchip Technology Inc. and its subsidiaries
The MOST Network contains multiple simultaneous networks operating across UTP . Once bandwidth is allocated, each
network (or data transfer method) operates independently (not affecting the others), providing a robust, dependable,
and deterministic system architecture. The OS81092 INIC supports the following data transfer methods, including:
• Control Network - consists of a single control channel
• Asynchronous (Packet) Network - consists of a single packet channel
• Synchronous Streaming Network - consists of one or more synchronous streaming channels
4.1.1 CONTROL NETWORK
The MOST Control Network consists of a single control channel, shar ed by all network nodes. Messages transported
across this channel adhere to the MOST Control Message (MCM) format and are used to manage the network and
exchange control data among nodes. Any network node that needs to transmit a control message must arbitrate for the
channel.
INIC monitors the control channel on the Network Port by default and uses information in the message header to deter-
mine whether the node is the intended receiver of the control message. When a control message is to be received (e.g.
node address match), it is buffered within INIC. For MCMs, the application is notified of the message reception and the
packet is retrieved by the EHC via one of the OS81092 har dware ports that supports control message exchange (see
Table 4-1).
4.1.2 ASYNCHRONOUS (PACKET) NETWORK
The MOST Asynchronous Network consists of a single packet channel, shared by all network nodes. Applications use
this channel to transmit large data packets (e.g. navigation maps) in bursts to other network nodes. Data packets on the
packet channel are referred to as asynchronous packets and adhere to the MOST Data Packet (MDP) format. Any net-
work node that needs to transmit a data packet can arbitrate for the packet channel.
INIC monitors the packet channel on the Network Port by default and uses information in the packet header to determine
whether the node is the intended receiver. When an asynchronous packet is to be received (e.g. node address match),
it is buffered within INIC and made available to the application at one of the OS81092 hardware ports that supports asyn-
chronous packets (see Table 4-1).
4.1.3 SYNCHRONOUS STREAMING NETWORK
The MOST Synchronous Streaming Network can consist of multiple synchronous streaming channels, each transport-
ing raw, real-time synchronous data (e.g. audio, video). The data on a synchronous streaming channel is sourced by a
single transmitting node that has been granted channel bandwidth. Synchronous streaming channels are broadcast, the
data available for reception by one or more sink nodes.
For high-speed synchronous data, INIC acts like a cross-poi nt switch to connect synch ronous streaming channels to
sources/sinks attached to OS81092 hardware ports that support synchronous data (see Table 4-1).
4.2 INIC Processor
The INIC Processor manages the transfer of data to and fr om the network. The Network Port connects the INIC Pro-
cessor to the network using the OS81092 network transmission and reception pins (ETXP/ETXN and ERXP/ERXN) to
exchange data over the ePHY interface. The ePHY interface of the OS81092 requires reception and transmission cir-
cuitry to connect the INIC Processor to the electrical netwo rk and increase system immunity to EMI. This external cir-
cuitry is referred to as the ePHY Front End Circuitry.
Working in conjunction with the Clock Manager, the Network Port recovers the network clock, decodes received data,
and passes data to the INIC Processor. The INIC Processor then routes data to the appropriate destinations on and off
the chip.
The network frame to be transmitted by the OS81092 is constructed by the INIC Processor by combining incoming net-
work data from the Network Port with outgoing data from other on-chip resources. The Network Port then encodes the
data for network transmission.
The INIC Software Stack runs on the INIC Processor and configures t he Network Port at power-up, which allows the
network to become fully operational without any external protocol stack. This has been accomplished by placing all the
lower layers of the ISO protocol stack inside of the device. In addition to the INIC Software Stack, the INIC Processor
supports two groups of functions: FBlock NBMIN and FBlock INIC. Figure 4-1 illustrates the position of the INIC Soft-
ware Stack within the ISO software model.