OS81092
DS60001271B-page 14  2009 - 2025  Microchip Technology Inc. and its subsidiaries
MediaLB is a token-passing bus, where the Controller manages the token and generates the data clock. The Controller
passes the token by sending out a ChannelAddress on the signal information line. The ChannelAddresses are pre-assigned
by the board integrator and are associated with a specific transmitting Device and a receiving Device. Once the trans-
mitting Device associated with the ChannelAddress is granted bus access, it can send one quadlet of data on the MediaLB
data line after a defined time delay. The Device provides information about the data being transmitted by simultaneously
sending out a Command on the signal information line. After receiving the ChannelAddress, the receiving Device must decide
whether to receive the associated message or reject it. A status byte from the receiving Device is placed on the signal
information line, one byte after the Command from the sending Device is received. Once per network frame, the Controller
generates a unique pattern (FRAMESYNC) on the signal information line. This defines the MediaLB frame edge, as well
as the byte boundary of signal and data lines for all Devices. 
Since MediaLB is a high-speed bus, connections to extern al devices should be implemented in hardware and not bit-
banged on generic ports. A MediaLB Device interface, in the form of VHDL code, is available from Microchip. For more
information about the Media Local Bus, refer to the MediaLB Specification [3].
EHC devices without an integrated MediaLB interface can use one of the Microchip I/O Companion devices (IOCs) as
a communication bridge between the OS81092 MediaLB Port and a parallel, SRAM-like EHC interface. For example,
the IOC Host Bus Interface (HBI) is a 16-bit parallel communication inte rface for exchange of all network data types.
This HBI Port is easily accommodated by EHCs with a ge neric SRAM port. In addition to serving as a communication
bridge between its MediaLB and HBI Ports, the IOC provides hardware port expansion to the application via the Medi-
aLB Port, as described in Section 4.3.6 “Port Expansion”.
4.3.3 STREAMING PORT
The Streaming Port provides a gateway for synchronous  data exchange between the OS81092 and external legacy
devices. Depending on the configuration of the OS81092, the Streaming Port supports up to four serial data pins, which
share a common synchronization signal and bit clock. The data format of the Streaming Port is compatible with industry-
standard serial interfaces found on many ADCs, DACs and other devices.
4.3.4 CONTROL PORT
The Control Port operates as an I2C bus slave and supports asynchronous packet and control message exchange. An
interrupt pin (INT) is used to notify the EHC when Control Port servicing is required (e.g. control message or asynchro-
nous packet received). While the EHC can communicate wi th the OS81092 over the Control Port alone, the I 2C data
rate limits throughput on the Application Layer. Application performance can be maximized by using the MediaLB Port
to transport all network data types. Configuring and enabling of the MediaLB Port is supported via the I2C Control Port.
The OS81092 Control Port may be configured as an I2C master by changing the settings in the INIC Configuration String.
In master mode, the OS81092 performs read and write operations with on-board I2C slave devices based on remote com-
mands from the MOST Network or from a local EHC.
4.3.5 GPIO PORT
Depending on the INIC Configuration String settings loaded in the OS81092, the General Purpose Input/Output (GPIO)
Port may be available to support various external operations. Some of the OS81092 default functions or ports may not
be available when the GPIO Port is used.
4.3.6 PORT EXPANSION
Devices belonging to the Microchip I/O Companion  (IOC) family can be used as companions to INIC, providing
expanded hardware ports to the application. The OS85650 IOC, for example, is a high-performance routing engine that
supports IO expansion and a Digital Transmission Content Protection (DTCP) coprocessor. The primary function of the
OS85650 is routing of data streams between various hardware ports, while the integrated DTCP coprocessor provides
optional encryption/decryption of data streams routed through the IOC device. Various services are available to support
full Authentication and Key Exchange (AKE) implementation. For applications that do not require DTCP, the OS85652
IOC provides the same functionality as the OS85650, albeit without the DTCP coprocessor.
When the OS85650 IOC is used as a companion to the OS81092 INIC, the MediaLB bus is typically the medium used
to exchange data between the two devices. Data exchanged over MediaLB is routed to another IOC hardware interface
on which external devices may reside (e.g. ADC, DSP, EHC). The EHC for the application may reside on the IOC’s Host
Bus Interface (HBI), which provides an SRAM-like parallel port for easy communication with various microcontrollers.
In this way, the IOC allows an EHC to exploit the effici ency and bandwidth of the MediaLB bus, even when the EHC
does not support a MediaLB interface.