 2009 - 2025  Microchip Technology Inc. and its subsidiaries DS60001271B-page 15
OS81092
FIGURE 4-2: INIC-IOC APPLICATION EXAMPLE
Contact Microchip for more information about the IOC family of devices, including the OS85650.
4.4 MOST NetServices
The division of services between the OS81092 INIC and the EHC in MOST applications is illustrated in Figure 4-3. To
accelerate development of MOST applications that use INIC, Microchip offers the MOST NetServices API, which pro-
vides a seamless software interface between INIC and the EHC.  A software library is available to provide all services
that are relevant for:
• exchanging application data on the MOST Network,
• managing hardware port data connections (e.g. sockets),
• managing high-level system tasks, and
• using control messages to access INIC for specific operations.
The MOST NetServices code incorporated into the EHC is divided into two distinct components: Basic Services (Layer
I) and Applications Socket (Layer II).
The Basic Services component provides the facilities that enable direct communication with INIC, including: a low-level
driver for message exchange, message management servic es, and data wrappers. When transmitting data from the
EHC to INIC, the wrapper modules pass data to the messa ge management services. Formatted messages are then
sent by the low-level driver across the interface between the EHC and INIC. When receiving data from INIC, the wrap-
pers reformat the data for compatibility with the MOST NetServices code that resides on the EHC.
The Applications Socket component resides on top of Basic Services and provides the FBlock NBEHC services required
to implement the full FBlock NetBlock on the node. This component also contains a command interpreter, which pro-
vides a simple API for developing application FBlocks (e.g. FBlock AudioAmp).
MOST NetServices code is modular, allowing it to be cust omized for a particular application. Implemented in ANSI C,
the MOST NetServices API can be adapted for individual requirements through configuration files.
MOST50 Network
ePHY Front-End 
Circuitry
Network 
Port
MediaLB
3-pin Port
MediaLB 3-pin Port
OS85650 IOC
HBIStreaming Port
EHCADC DAC
Streaming Data
Packet Data
Control Data
Application Data Streams:
encrypted data
decrypted data
DTCP Coprocessor
Internal uC
Streaming 
PortADC OS81092 INIC