OS81092
DS60001271B-page 24  2009 - 2025  Microchip Technology Inc. and its subsidiaries
7.1.2 READING FROM THE CONTROL PORT
The beginning of transmission is marked by a start condition . The first byte specifies t he chip address, as well as
whether the operation is a read or a write. The OS81092 address (Factory default of 0100000) occupies the upper seven
bits of the first byte; the R/W bit is the LSB.
When the Control Port receives the address byte of 41h (Factory default OS81092 address and R/W bit set), it acknowl-
edges reception of the byte through an acknowledge bit and the rest of the data is read from the Control Port. The read
data is defined as the Port Message (PM) and can be one of the following:
• FIFO Data (Read) message
• FIFO Status (Read) message
Figure 7-3 illustrates the I2C transmission read sequence. The characters “S” and “P” represent the start and stop con-
ditions for messages. 
FIGURE 7-3: CONTROL PORT READ SEQUENCE (SLAVE MODE)
The INT pin going low indicates that a Port Message is available in at least one of the message FIFOs. Once a message
starts being read, the INT pin is de-asserted. If other messages are pending (waiting to be read), the INT pin is asserted
again. This pending interrupt can occur as soon as the last byte of the current Port Message is read.
If a Port Message is not fully read (stop or repeated start bit received before the end of the message), INT is reasserted
and the next read command starts reading from the beginning of the disrupted message, not the position where the read
was previously terminated.
Ideally, the EHC reads the entire length of the Port Message in one Control Port read cycle, where the total number of
bytes read is extracted from the Port Message Length (PML) during the read cycle. For I2C drivers that are not able to
decipher the message length during a single read cycle, other methods of reading the Port Message are feasible, includ-
ing the following:
• Example 1: The EHC may issue two consecutive Control Port reads. The first cycle reads two bytes of the 
Port Message, where PML is extracted. Based on the message length obtained from PML in this first read cycle, a 
second cycle reads the entire Port Message (including the first two bytes again).
• Example 2: The EHC may issue read cycles that always read the maximum length of a Port Message, regardless 
of the actual PML. Once the Port Message is read, application software can later determine the relevant portion of 
the read data using the actual PML. The OS81092 returns 00h data when a read cycle extends beyond the actual 
length of the Port Message.
External
System:
Control Port:
Start bit
Part Address
Read
Acknowledge
R/W
A Data1 DataN P
Acknowledge
Stop bit
S 01000 1A
No Acknowledge
SDA 00 D a t a 2
Acknowledge
A
Port Message (PM)
FIFO Data BodyPML PMHL FDHFPH
FIFO Status ReadPML PMHL FPHFIFO Status Read message:
FIFO Data Read message: