 2009 - 2025  Microchip Technology Inc. and its subsidiaries DS60001271B-page 27
OS81092
8.0 MediaLB PORT 
The Media Local Bus (MediaLB) Port gives external devices (e.g. the Ex ternal Host Controller) real-time access to all
supported types of data on the MOST Network. The MediaLB Port and the Streaming Port share some pins; therefore,
some Streaming and MediaLB modes are mutually exclusive.
The MediaLB Port can be configured for one of the following operational modes:
• MediaLB 3-pin Mode - When configured in this mode, the MediaLB Port provides a 3-pin interface that supports a 
maximum data rate of 1024Fs (49.152 MHz at Fs=48 kHz). In this mode, the Streaming Port may be configured 
with up to two serial interfaces for accessing synchronous network data.
• MediaLB 5-pin Mode - When configured in this mode, the MediaLB Port provides a 5-pin interface that supports a 
maximum data rate of 512Fs (24.576 MHz at Fs=48 kHz). In this mode, the Streaming Port is not available.
MediaLB bandwidth is managed in quadlets (4 bytes) and consists of a combination of streaming, packet, and control
data. The MediaLB Port rate of 256Fs supports up to seven quadlets of data, divided among streaming, packet, and
control data types. The MediaLB Port rate of 512 Fs supports up to 15 quadlets of data. The MediaLB Port rate of
1024Fs supports up to 31 quadlets of data. A maximum of 64 bytes can be transferred per frame, in either direction,
for the Streaming Port and MediaLB Port combined.
When transmitting data onto the network, the MSB is transmitted first. To comply with the MOST Specification [1], when
transmitting multi-byte words, the most significant byte should be transmitted first. In addition, when transmitting stereo
data, left should be sent before right.
The MediaLB Port can be enabled by default after power-up/reset based on the INIC Configuration String. If the Medi-
aLB Port is not enabled by default at power-up/reset, it can be manually enabled and configured via ICMs through the
Control Port, if desired. The MediaLB Port is enabled auto matically at power-up/reset under one of the following two
conditions:
• PortConfiguration.DefPort() is set to MediaLB, or
• PortConfiguration.DefPort() is set to INT_Select and INT is pulled low.
If OTP memory is uninitialized, the OS81092 falls back to predetermined Factory defaults, where INT_Select is used
as the default setting for PortConfiguration.DefPort(). If the MediaLB Port is enabled at power-up/reset in this
manner (e.g. INT pulled low) with uninitialized OTP memory, the Factory default mode and speed is 3-pin mode at
1024Fs.
Although INT is not used for MediaLB communications, if pulled high, it can be used to wake up the EHC after a device
shut-down. See the ShutDown() function in the OS81092 INIC API User’s Manual [2] for more information.
After reset, and following MediaLB Port initialization, the first INIC message sent to the EHC indicates the OS81092 is
initialized and ready to communicate with the EHC.
AllFIFOs:Status(SyncS, StartUp)
In common applications, this message is used to instruct the EHC to synchronize its FIFOs. Additionally, the EHC may
start synchronization of the OS81092 by sending the following message:
AllFIFOs:Command(SyncC)
The OS81092 responds to the above message once the synch ronization is complete. This procedure ensures that
OS81092 and the EHC can synchronize communication under various circumstances. The status message sent by the
OS81092 is:
AllFIFOs:Status(SyncS, SyncRcvd)
8.1 MediaLB 3-pin Mode
The MediaLB Port provides a conduit for accessing the content of the MOST Network via a single hardware interface.
All data types exchanged across network channels are supported across MediaLB.
The MediaLB Port also allows access to the internal func tions of the OS81092, eliminating the need for Control Port
access. With MediaLB, only one interface is needed for data and control. When combined with the MediaLB software
API library, the system designer is insulated from much of the complexity of managing the interface between the appli-
cation software and the network.