 2009 - 2025  Microchip Technology Inc. and its subsidiaries DS60001271B-page 39
OS81092
10.0 EXTERNAL POWER MANAGEMENT
The OS81092 INIC supports external power management logic by providing two inputs (PS0 and PS1) and one output
(PWROFF). The PS0 and PS1 inputs convey status of the external power management logic. The PWROFF output pin
is driven low during normal operation and released when the OS81092 INIC is ready to be powered-off by the external
power management logic. When using OS81092 Revision C1D (o r later) devices, the functional response when INIC
recognizes the various external power management states can be further adjusted as described in the OS81092 INIC
API User’s Manual [2].
The PS0 and PS1 inputs should indicate power management stat us, and communicate when an external power man-
agement event has occurred. Table 10-1 describes the power management st ates that are defined by the
MOST Specification [1] and should be communicated via PS0 and PS1. More information on system-wide INIC power
management architectures can be found in the MOST INIC Hardware Concepts Specification [8].
Hardware recognizes an external power management state when PS0 and PS1 remain at a valid logic level for a mini-
mum time, tpshold (see Section 15.4.2 “Reset and Power Management”); however, the INIC Software Stack may use lon-
ger hold times for PS0 and PS1 states before responding to an external  power management event. In addition, the
INIC Software Stack controls how INIC responds to external power management events (e.g. releasing PWROFFandlor
forcing network shutdown). If external power management is not used, PS0 and PS1 should be pulled to ground or power
management handling should be disabled.
An STP event is recognized upon power-up (or reset) and on the transition to PS[1:0] = 01. If these pins continue to
indicate an STP status (PS[1:0] = 01) after an STP event has already been recognized, the U Normal state is assumed.
An STP event can cause INIC to enter Ring-Break Diagnosis mode, based on the RBDOptions() function parameter
settings. See the OS81092 INIC API User’s Manual [2] for more information.
The PMIConfig() property is used to configure the behavior of the PWROFF pin based on the various NetInterface
states (NIState()), EHCI states (EHCIState()) and the external power m anagement states listed in Table 10-1.
Parameters optionally limit INIC from releasing PWROFF in specific EHCI states. Additionally, when using Revision C1D
and later devices, parameters optionally limit INIC from releasing PWROFF when the U Low state is recognized. The
PMIConfig() property is set in the INIC Configuration String (see the OS81092 INIC API User’s Manual [2] for more
information).
In Revision C1C and earlier devices, the network output ( ETXP/ETXN) is automatically switched off (and the
ERRlBOOT pin is driven high) whenever the ULow state is recognized. As long as the ULow state is indicated on PS[1:0],
the ETXP/ETXN outputs remain disabled, regardless of activity on ERXP/ERXN. When using Revision C1D and later
devices, parameters in the PMIConfig() property can be adjusted to keep the network output switched on when ULow
is recognized. Refer to the OS81092 INIC API User’s Manual [2] for more information.
INIC supports implementation of a low-power mode through the use of Device ShutDown, which utilizes the Shut-
Down() function (in FBlock NBMIN), to place the node in a low-power state.  When the EHC receives this function it
should minimize power consumption, if supported. The network can then re-start the node through the ShutDown()
function, where INIC drives INT low to wake the EHC.
Note: When the GPIO Port is enabled (only available on OS81092 Revision C1D or
later devices), the PS0 and PS1 pins are unavailable for monitoring external
power management status. Refer to Chapter 12.0 “General Purpose Input/Out-
put (GPIO) Port” for more information.
TABLE 10-1: EXTERNAL POWER MANAGEMENT STATES
PS1 PS0 Status
00 U Normal
0 1 Switch-To-Power (STP)
10 U Critical, USuper
11 U Low