 2009 - 2025  Microchip Technology Inc. and its subsidiaries DS60001271B-page 41
OS81092
11.0 CLOCK MANAGER
The Clock Manager generates internal clocks and optionally drives the RMCK external clock. The RMCK output clock
supports synchronization of external devices to a clock multiple synchronous to the network frame rate.
11.1 PLL Lock Status
After power-up, the internal PLL locks to an external clock reference (XTI/XTO) and provides the primary timebase for
the OS81092. Clock and data recovery is performed at the Ne twork Port. For proper data and clock recovery of the
incoming network bitstream, a valid reference clock must always be available.
When network lock is initially achieved, it takes three frames to synchronize streaming data. Therefore, streaming data
will not be transferred properly between the network and any open source or sink ports for three frames when going
from the unlock to lock state. While the PLL is un locked, only control messages  targeting the local FBlock INIC or
NBMIN can be transferred (via the Control Port or MediaLB Port).
Network lock/unlock events can affect the behavior of the ERR/BOOT pin, based on the MuteMode() setting. For more
information on the use of ERR/BOOT for lock/unlock detection, refer to the OS81092 INIC API User’s Manual [2].
11.2 Crystal Pins (XTI/XTO)
The crystal oscillator should be in a fundamental, parallel resonant mode. Figure 11-1 depicts the external circuitry con-
nected to the OS81092 oscillator circuit. Since the internal inverter/amplifier is  operated in its linear region, external
series resistors should not be used, as they will lower the gain and could cause start-up problems. Several factors must
be considered when selecting a crystal, including load capacitance, oscillator margin, cut, and operating temperature.
For more information on crystals, see Section 16.7 “Crystal Oscillator Selection”. The crystal frequency must be 384
times the desired operational network frequency (Fs).
If an external clock is used in lieu of a crystal oscillator, it must be connected to XTI. The clock must be stable prior to
the rising edge of RST and remain stable for proper operation. In addition, XTO should float and have minimal capaci-
tance (see Figure 11-1).
FIGURE 11-1: CRYSTAL OSCILLATOR INPUT
Note: A valid and continuous external reference clock (XTI/XTO) must be present for
normal operation. If the reference clock is disabled during operation, INIC may
become inoperable and/or the state of the ERR/BOOT pin may become invalid.
A reset and valid reference clock is required to recover from this condition.
XTO
XTI
C2
C1 = C2 = 10 - 22 pF
C1
XTAL
XTO
XTI
OR
< 10 pFOS81092 OS81092
OSC.