 2009 - 2025  Microchip Technology Inc. and its subsidiaries DS60001271B-page 43
OS81092
12.1.1 PUSH-PULL OUTPUT
The Push-Pull Output mode provides a user-controlled output signal that is actively driven both high and low. The default
output state of the pin can be configured either high or low level.
Because all GPIO pins are high-impedance inputs following pow er-up and reset, an external resistor to either ground
or power is recommended to hold the pin at the desired initial state before the GPIO is configured as a Push-Pull Output.
12.1.2 OPEN-DRAIN OUTPUT
The Open-Drain Output mode provides a user-controlled output signal that is actively driven low and set to high-imped-
ance during the logic high state. An ex ternal pull-up resistor is required to establish the logic high level when INIC
releases the pin. This GPIO mode is useful for ganged signals for which more than one device can drive the line active
(low).
Event notification (triggers) can also be configured on outputs similarly to inputs. For Open-Drain Outputs, this function-
ality is also used to notify the higher-level application that another device has driven the line active.
Because all GPIO pins are high-impedance inputs following power-up and reset, the required external pull-up resistor
holds the pin at a logic high level before the GPIO is configured as an Open-Drain Output.
12.1.3 INPUT
A GPIO pin that is configured as an input can generate a notification (trigger) when an logic level (high-level or low-level)
is detected or when a signal transition (edge) is detected.
12.1.4 STICKY INPUT
A Sticky Input allows the user to capture very brief pulses that may occur using dedicated hardware mechanisms. Once
an input pulse has been captured, the condition remains active until cleared. The ’stuck’ value is referred to as the sticky
state and is independent of the actual state of the hardware pin.
The Sticky Input GPIO mode is appropriate for high speed inputs where active conditions may only exist for brief periods
of time. Once the active condition has been captured, the in put is ’stuck’ and INIC does not report any further event
conditions. Therefore, the captured state must be manually cleared by a higher-level application to re-enable the report-
ing of event conditions. The main advantage of a Sticky Input is the ability to capture narrow pulses that cannot be
detected when using other GPIO modes.
Edge-based trigger events on Sticky Input pins remain valid as long as the input signal remains at the active level. Once
the event is cleared, INIC will immediately report another event if the active level remains present on the GPIO pin. This
behavior is similar to the Level-Sensitive Input GPIO mode; however, in the case of Sticky Inputs, this action may result
in additional edge-based events being reported when no further edges have actually occurred. 
A limitation of the Sticky Input mode is that the captured state must be manually cleared by a higher-level application in
order to re-enable the reporting of s ubsequent event notific ations. Another limitation is the additional complexities
(described above) associated with handling an input event that is maintained at the active level rather than appearing
as a narrow pulse.
12.1.5 DEBOUNCED INPUT
A Debounced Input is an Input that does not immediately report an event. Rather, the value on the pin is captured again
after a period of time and compared to the initially captured value. If the values match, the signal is assumed to be stable
(valid) and an event is reported. If the values do not matc h, the original edge event is considered non-qualified and is
ignored.
The Debounced Input GPIO mode is useful for capturing events generated by mechanical switches that normally suffer
from contact bounce. The time delay allows the signal to settle before reporting the event thereby only reporting a single,
clean event to the monitoring application.
Refer to the OS81092 INIC API User’s Manual [2] for more information on configuring a Debounced Input.