 2009 - 2025  Microchip Technology Inc. and its subsidiaries DS60001271B-page 47
OS81092
14.0 ELECTRICAL PHYSICAL  (ePHY) INTERFACE
The OS81092 Electrical Physical (ePHY) interface supports electrical transmission of the network bit-stream between
network devices, at a data rate up to 50 Mbps. An electrical MOST Network running at this data rate is referred to as a
MOST50 Network. The ePHY interface is provided as an alternative to the traditional optical physical interface found in
other MOST Network transceivers.
The ePHY interface consists of:
• ETXP - positive transmitter output
• ETXN - negative transmitter output
• ERXP - positive receiver input
• ERXN - negative receiver input
• ERXCM - common-mode set voltage
The ePHY system is a method of serial data communication between two or more compatible nodes using an electrical
cable, rather than the traditional optical fiber. The OS81092 ePHY interface and the external ePHY Front End Circuitry
described in this data sheet are optimized for use with unshielded twisted pair (UTP) wire.
Figure 14-1 illustrates the connection between the OS81092 ePHY interface and UTP MOST Network. A large portion
of the Transmitter and Receiver Front End Circuitry is used to reduce electromagnetic emissions and increase the over-
all system immunity to EMI. 
FIGURE 14-1: ePHY INTERFACE - BLOCK DIAGRAM
When transmitting data onto the network, the Network Port accepts data bytes from the INIC Processor, scrambles the
data to reduce data-dependent jitter, conditions the signal for transmission over UTP , and transmits the encoded bit-
stream onto ETXP/ETXN. These pins are driven by an internal DAC, which outputs a low-pass filtered version of the
bit-stream by sourcing a total of 40 mA into external load resistors (R2 and R3 in Figure 14-2). The ETXP/ETXN outputs
interface with the Transmitter Front End Circuitry, which provides an analog low-pass filter and a 1:1.5 isolation trans-
former that drives the UTP cable. The UTP cable has a nominal impedance of 130  (+10 /-30 ).
Network data at the receiver end is applied to a 1:1 isolation transformer (see the ePHY Receiver Front End Circuitry in
Figure 14-2). The transformer increases the noise immunity by providing a high level of common-mode noise rejection.
The transformer output feeds low-pass analog filters, which drive the ERXP and ERXN differential inputs. Resistors at
these inputs are used to terminate the line with the cable’s characteristic impedance (R201 and R202 in Figure 14-2).
The ERXCM pin supplies a DC voltage (approximately 1.2 V) to the center of the resistors, in order to provide the dif-
ferential input signal with the required common-mode voltage for data recovery.
When the OS81092 receives the serial network bit-stream at ERXP/ERXN, it converts the differential input to a single-
ended signal. The Network Port detects the preamble in the received bit-stream, detects transmission errors, and works
in conjunction with the Clock Manager to recover the clo ck from the bit-stream. The Network Port then decodes and
unscrambles the bit-stream, and sends the network data to the INIC Processor as data bytes.
When the OS81092 is configured as a timing-slave, the Network Port is synchronized to the bit-stream recovered clock.
When configured as the timing-master, the Network Port controls network timing, based on the external clock input. The
transmitted network frames are aligned to this clock.
ETXP
Streaming
Port
Clock 
Manager
Network Port
MediaLB
Port
ETXN
ERXP
ERXCM
ERXN
encodescramble
decodeunscramble
preamble 
& error 
detection
ePHY Transmitter
Front End Circuitry:
Filtering &
Isolation Transformer
ePHY Receiver
Front End Circuitry:
Isolation Transformer
& Filtering
signal 
conditoner DAC
single-
ended input 
convertion
INIC 
Processor
MOST50
Network (UTP)
OS81092
Figure 14-2
Figure 14-2