OS81092
DS60001271B-page 66  2009 - 2025  Microchip Technology Inc. and its subsidiaries
16.2 Optional Components
Figure 16-1 shows Schottky diodes between the 1.8 V and 3.3 V power supplies and ferrite beads on the analog power
supply pins. The use of these components is optional a nd should be considered on a case-by-case basis, depending
on application requirements and limitations.
As noted in Section 16.1 “Power”, the 1.8 V supply must never exceed the 3.3 V supplies by more than 0.5 V. Addition-
ally, the 3.3 V analog supply must never exceed the 3.3 V continuous supply by more than 0.5 V. One approach to sat-
isfying these power sequencing requirements is to connect Schottky diodes between the supplies to prevent a particular
supply from exceeding another by more than a diode drop. If used, these diodes should be sized according to the power
requirements of the 3.3 V supply.
Ferrite beads can be added to VDDA18 and VDDA33 for increased noise immunity in EMI-sensitive applications.
16.3 Reset
After both the 3.3 V and 1.8 V power supplies have stabilized, the OS81092 must be reset (RST low) for normal oper-
ation. A proper reset is when both supplies are 90 % VDD; however, electrical specifications are applicable only within
±5 % VDD. Once initialized, INIC is typically reset by the EHC only when a fatal error occurs, or when loading the INIC
Configuration String (see the OS81092 INIC API User’s Manual [2]).
If the external POR circuit does not drive the RST line high (e.g. open-drain output), an external pull-up resistor to 3.3 V
should be used. If the external POR circuit drives the RST line high and low (e.g. push-pull output), a series resistor
should be used between the POR circuit and the OS81092 RST pin in lieu of the pull-up. This series resistor allows INIC
to be reset by something other than the POR circuit, such as the EHC or the INIC Explorer tool. The pull-up or series
resistor should be at least 10 k.
The RST pulse width should be long enough to allow the external configuration pins (ERR/BOOT and INT) to achieve
their default state. The transition time of RST is not relevant, provided the noise level does not exceed the Vhys-rst
parameter specified in Section 15.4.2 “Reset and Power Management”.
16.4 Other Application Pins
For normal operation, the ERR/BOOT pin should be pulled to 3.3 V. To support the Customer Configuration Interface,
the on-board pull-up resistor on ERR/BOOT must not be less than 10 k; however, the actual resistor value should be
chosen based on the input leakage of the INIC pin and on the other devices connected to the line. The JTAG Port pins
TMS, TCK, TDI, and TDO require pull-up resistors to 3.3 V, regardless of whether or not the JTAG interface is used.
The OS81092 RSOUT pin is an optional output that allows INIC to reset the EHC. When used, the RSOUT pin should
be pulled high by an on-board resistor (10 k recommended) and connected to the Reset pin of the EHC. INIC drives
RSOUT low to reset the EHC when either:
•t h e  Reset.Start(Target) INIC function is called and the Target parameter specifies the EHC as the device 
to be reset, or
• the watchdog timer expires and the WatchdogMode() INIC function indicates the EHC should be reset.
The length of the reset pulse on RSOUT is 10 ms. For more information on the RSOUT pin, refer to the OS81092 INIC
API User’s Manual [2] and the MOST INIC Hardware Concepts Specification [8].
When an external crystal is used, the XTI and XTO pins should be connected directly to the crystal (e.g. no series resis-
tance). The crystal used must be 384 Fs and should comply with the specifications outlined in Section 16.7 “Crystal
Oscillator Selection”. If an external clock is used in lieu of a crystal oscillator, it must be connected to XTI and support
the drive levels listed in the Chapter 15.0 “Electrical Characteristics” chapter.
When external power management is used, the PWROFF pin must be pulled high through an external resistor. After
initialization, INIC drives PWROFF low during normal operation and releases PWROFF when the INIC Processor is
ready to be shutdown. Refer to Chapter 10.0 “External Power Management” for more information.
16.5 Persistent Memory
The OS81092 may optionally use persistent memory to maintain certain internal values when the OS81092 is placed in
a low-power mode (e.g. MOST Sleep Mode). To support this functionality, the application should supply 3.3 V continu-
ous power to VDDU, which powers the RAM-based per sistent memory, independent of all other switched power sup-
plies (VDDA18, VDDA33, VDDCn, VDDEn, and VDDPn). Refer to the OS81092 INIC API User’s Manual [2] for more
information on using OS81092 persistent memory.