OS81092
DS60001271B-page 70  2009 - 2025  Microchip Technology Inc. and its subsidiaries
16.7 Crystal Oscillator Selection
Several factors must be considered when selecting a crystal, including: load capacitance, operating temperature, cut,
and oscillator margin. Oscillator margin is a measure of the stability of an oscillator circuit, and is defined as the ratio of
the oscillator’s negative resistance (RNEG) to the crystal’s ESR (RESR), or:
The negative resistance can be measured by placing a variable resistor (RVAR) in series with the crystal and finding the
largest resistor value where the crystal still starts up properly. This point would be just below where the oscillator does
not start-up or where the start-up time is excessively long.
Ideally, oscillator margin should be greater than 10, and should  be at least 5. Smaller oscillator margin can affect the
ability of the oscillator to start up.
The load capacitance, specified when ordering the crystal, is the series combination of the capacitance on each leg of
the crystal. This capacitance includes not only the added capacitors, but also PCB trace (shunt) capacitance and chip
pin capacitance. Larger capacitors also have a negative effect on oscillator margin. In general, the external capacitors
on each leg (C1 and C2 in Figure 11-1) should be in the 10 to 22 pF range. 
The crystal cut and tolerance value listed in Table 16-1 are typical values and may be changed to suit differing system
requirements. Higher ESR values (than those listed in the Table 16-1) run the risk of having start-up problems and
should be thoroughly tested before being used. Contact the crystal manufacturer for more information.
TABLE 16-1: CRYSTAL OSCILLATOR SPECIFICATIONS
Name Value Description
Frequency 384 Fs Frequency relative to operating network frame rate (Fs)
Correlation Parallel Resonant Mode of oscillation
Osc. Mode Fundamental Oscillation mode or operation mode
CL 10-22 pF Load capacitance (typical)
CO 7 pF Recommended maximum shunt (parallel) capacitance
ESR 100  Recommended maximum equivalent series resistance
Drive Level 50 W Drive level (typical)
Cut AT AT cut produces the best temperature stability
Tolerance ±200 ppm Frequency tolerance over all conditions (typical)
Mi narg RNEG
RESR
------------------ RVAR RESR+
RESR
---------------------------------------==