 2009 - 2025  Microchip Technology Inc. and its subsidiaries DS60001271B-page 79
OS81092
16.9.1 POWER AND DECOUPLING
A 0.01 F decoupling capacitor should be used at each OS81092 power pin for localized decoupling. For EMI-sensitive
applications C0G capacitors are strongly recommended for their superior performance at high frequencies. To reduce
trace impedance and keep the loop areas small, decoupling capacitors should be positioned as close as possible to the
OS81092. Two vias to the ground plane should be used to minimize inductance.
The recommended placement of decouplin g capacitors is on the same side of the PCB as the OS81092. However,
decoupling capacitors may be mounted on the opposite side of the PCB to reduce the distance between the capacitor
and the pin, as inductance from vias is less harmful than long traces that may allow external interference.
In situations where both large (e.g. el ectrolytic or tantalum) and small (e.g. ce ramic) capacitors are used, the smaller
capacitor should take priority for placement and layout optimization.
As in all low-noise circuits, two vias should be used from power and ground traces to the respective power and ground
planes to reduce parasitic inductance, whenever possible. Additionally, power traces should be as wide as practical and
all OS81092 ground pins (digital, analog, continuous, and ePHY) should be tied to the same ground plane.
Ground-plane fill is used under the part to minimize the impedance between ground pins, which also helps minimize
EMI. If ground-plane fill must be broken by a trace, multiple stitching vias should connect each section of the fill to a
reference ground plane on another layer. Vias that connect high frequency decoupling capacitors to the ground plane
should be as close as possible to the OS81092 to minimize loop area back to the chip ground pins.
16.9.2 PHYSICAL LAYER
For optimum performance, attention should be given to the routing and placement of physical layer components. Meet-
ing the stringent emission and interfer ence requirements of the aut omotive environment requires strict adherence to
good circuit layout practices. The following recommendations represent steps taken by Microchip to meet the required
automotive standards. All components listed in this section refer to reference designators shown in the OS81092 Ref-
erence Schematic (Figure 16-4), as well as the ePHY Front End Circuit Diagram (Figure 14-2).
The ePHY Front End circuitry (including the MOST Network connector) should reside on the same PCB as (and in close
proximity to) the OS81092. The distance between the external circuitry that represents the receiving physical interface
(shown in Figure 14-2) and the OS81092 should be as short as possible to optimize signal integrity and improve EMC.
The OS81092 transmit and receive lines ( ETXP/ETXN and ERXP/ERXN) are differential signal pairs, which must be
implemented on the PCB as impedance controlled (e.g 100 ) traces. Differential pairs should be matched in length and
tightly coupled, with constant  spacing maintained between them over their entire length. When possible, the signals
should be routed on a single layer and the use of vias should be minimized. Additionally, traces should be routed over
a continuous reference plane, preferably a ground plane. To minimize reflections, two 45 degree turns should be used
rather than a single 90 degree turn. Crosstalk can be avoided by not running other signals in parallel to the transmit and
receive lines for long distances.
The differential signal pairs should maintain balanced symmetry throughout the ePHY Front End circuitry. The isolation
transformer (T1) separates cable-side components from chip-side components. The placement and orientation of C20,
C21, C22, C23, C24, C25, and T1 shown in Figure 16-5 allows currents to be steered through the filtering circuitry. A
void should be constructed under the transformer (on all laye rs) to reduce magnetic coupling between internal planes
and the cores of the transformer.
The length of the traces between the capacitor (C15) a nd the reception termination components (R201, R202, and
C206) is less critical; however, the reception termination components must be placed as close to the OS81092 as pos-
sible.
A chassis ground plane (not shown) may exist beneath th e MOST Network connector and the power input connector,
if needed to suppress EMC issues. The chassis ground must be separated from the signal ground by a moat at least
3 mm wide. The moat is an area containing no planes or traces on any layer of the board. In the circuit, signals may only
cross the moat through the transformer (T1) and the common-mode chokes (L7 and L8). The components on the chas-
Note: Circuit configurations different from those shown in Figure 14-2 and
Figure 16-4, and layout configurations different from those shown in this
section may produce different result s. Customers are responsible for
designing and testing their unique systems for emission and interference
adherence.