replace all of its functionality.
An important aspect of the Heartbeat response is time synchronisation. The Ping and Pong frames
cannot be used for this so at least one original Heartbeat message a day is recommended to ensure a
correct clock setting on the Charge Point.
5.4. Reconnecting
When reconnecting a charge point should not send a BootNotification unless one or more of the
elements in the BootNotification have changed since the last connection. For the previous SOAP based
solutions this was considered good practice but when using WebsSocket the server can already make
the match between the identity and a communciation channel at the moment the connection is
established. There is no need for an additional message.
5.5. Network node hierarchy
The physical network topology is not influenced by a choice for JSON or SOAP. In case of JSON however
the issues with Network Address Translation (NAT) have been resolved by letting the Charge Point
open a TCP connection to the Central System and keeping this connection open for communication
initiated by the Central System. It is therefore no longer necessary to have a smart device capable of
interpreting and redirecting SOAP calls in between the Central System and the Charge Point.
6. Security
Two approaches exist for security with OCPP-J. Either one can rely on network-level security, or one
uses OCPP-J over TLS. Both approaches are described below.
It is important that at all times, one of these approaches is used. Practically, this means that a Central
System SHOULD NOT listen for incoming unencrypted OCPP-J connections from the internet.
6.1. Network-level security
For security one MAY rely on the security at a network level. This has historically been done with
OCPP-S, and on networks that are set up appropriately one can also use OCPP-J without additional
encryption or authentication measures.
6.2. OCPP-J over TLS
Sometimes however a secured network is not available between Charge Point and Central System. In
that case one can use OCPP-J over TLS. This section explains how this is done.
The security needed for OCPP communication actually consists of two separate features: encryption
and charge point authentication.
15