connections. Using this mechanism on an unencrypted connection means that anyone who can see the
network traffic between Charge Point and Central System can see the charge point credentials, and can
thus impersonate the Charge Point.
Setting the charge point’s credentials
For this charge point authentication scheme, the charge point needs to have an authentication key.
This authentication key has to be transferred onto the charge point in some way. What is a good way
depends on the business model of the charge point manufacturer and central system operator.
Setting during or before installation
The desired, secure situation is that every charge point has its own, unique authorization key. If an
authorization key is not unique, an attacker who discovers the authorization key of a single charge
point can impersonate many or even all charge points in an operator’s Central System.
The simplest way to achieve this is to install the authorization key on the charge point during
manufacture or installation. In these cases, the key will be securely communicated between the central
system operator and installer or manufacturer by communication channels outside of OCPP. This
scenario is secure because the key is not sent over the channel it is meant to secure, so an attacker
eavesdropping the connection between Charge Point and Central System cannot impersonate the
Charge Point.
Setting the key over OCPP
If the processes of manufacturing, sale and installation of a charge point are not under the central
system operator’s control, there is no way to put a unique key on each individual charge point and also
make sure the central system operator knows these keys and the charge points they belong to. For such
scenarios, it is desirable for all charge points of a series to have the same "master" key when they leave
the factory and are installed, or to have keys that are derived from the charge point identity by the
same algorithm. Still the Central System operator will want to keep adversaries from impersonating all
charge points of a series if the master key is leaked. For this use case, there is a possibility for the
Central System to send a unique key to the charge point via OCPP after charge point installation.
To set a charge point’s authorization key via OCPP, the Central System SHALL send the Charge Point a
ChangeConfiguration.req message with the key AuthorizationKey and as the value a 40-character
hexadecimal representation of the 20-byte authorization key. If the Charge Point responds to this
ChangeConfiguration.req with a ChangeConfiguration.conf with status Accepted, the Central System
SHALL assume that the authorization key change was successful, and no longer accept the credentials
previously used by the charge point. If the Charge Point responds to the ChangeConfiguration.req with
a ChangeConfiguration.conf with status Rejected or NotSupported, the Central System SHALL keep
accepting the old credentials. While the Central System SHALL still accept an OCPP-J connection from
the Charge Point in this case, it MAY treat the Charge Point’s OCPP  messages differently, e.g. by not
accepting the Charge Point’s boot notifications.
17