NXP Semiconductors PN7160_PN7161
Near Field Communication (NFC) controller
• Target mode
11.2.2.2  SPI-bus configuration options
In order to select SPI-bus interface for host communication, some EEPROM settings are programmed during
production.
The CPOL/CPHA EEPROM settings are fixed as specified in Table 15.
The selection between interfaces is fused during IC manufacturing so that different ordering numbers for the
SPI-bus version.
Connection
CPHA switch: Clock PHAse: defines the sampling edge of MOSI data
• CPHA = 0: data are sampled on MOSI on the odd clock edges of SCK after NSS goes low
CPOL switch: Clock POLarity
• IFSEL1 = 0: the clock is idle low and the first valid edge of SCK will be a rising one
Table 15. SPI-bus configuration
The SPI-bus interface shares 4 pins with the I2C-bus interface. During production of the device, the interface
is fixed to SPI or I²C and cannot be changed later. The functionality of the interface pins in SPI configuration is
described in Table 16.
Pin name Functionality
HIF1 NSS (Not Target Select)
HIF2 MOSI (Controller Out Target In)
HIF3 MISO (Controller In Target Out)
HIF4 SCK (Serial Clock)
Table 16. Functionality for SPI-bus interface
11.2.2.3  SPI-bus functional description
When a controller device transmits data to PN7160 (target device) via the MOSI line, PN7160 responds by
sending data to the controller device via the controllers MISO line. This implies full-duplex transmission with
both data out and data in synchronized with the same clock signal.
PN7160 starts sampling when receiving a logic low at pin NSS and the clock at input pin SCK. Thus, PN7160 is
synchronized with the controller. Data from the controller is received serially at the target MOSI line and loads
the 8-bit shift register. After the 8-bit shift register is loaded, its data is transferred to the read buffer. During a
write cycle, data is written into the shift register, then PN7160 waits for a clock train from the controller to shift
the data out on the targets MISO line.
• Controller In Target Out (MISO)
The MISO line is configured as an input in a controller device and as an output in a target device. It is used to
transfer data from the target to the controller, with the most significant bit sent first. The MISO line of a target
device should be placed in the high impedance state if the target is not selected.
• Controller Out Target In (MOSI)
The MOSI line is configured as an output in a controller device and as an input in a target device. It is used to
transfer data from the controller to a target, with the Most Significant Bit (MSB) sent first.
• Serial Clock (SCK)
The serial clock is used to synchronize data movement both in and out of the device through its MOSI and
MISO lines. The controller and target devices are capable of exchanging a byte of information during a
PN7160_PN7161 All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers. © 2026 NXP B.V. All rights reserved.
Product data sheet Rev. 4.2 — 22 July 2026 Document feedback
24 / 70