NXP Semiconductors PN7160_PN7161
Near Field Communication (NFC) controller
18   Soldering of SMD packages
This text provides a very brief insight into a complex technology. A more in-depth account of soldering ICs can
be found in Application Note AN10365 "Surface mount reflow soldering description".
18.1  Introduction to soldering
Soldering is one of the most common methods through which packages are attached to Printed Circuit Boards
(PCBs), to form electrical circuits. The soldered joint provides both the mechanical and the electrical connection.
There is no single soldering method that is ideal for all IC packages. Wave soldering is often preferred when
through-hole and Surface Mount Devices (SMDs) are mixed on one printed wiring board; however, it is not
suitable for fine pitch SMDs. Reflow soldering is ideal for the small pitches and high densities that come with
increased miniaturization.
18.2  Wave and reflow soldering
Wave soldering is a joining technology in which the joints are made by solder coming from a standing wave of
liquid solder. The wave soldering process is suitable for the following:
• Through-hole components
• Leaded or leadless SMDs, which are glued to the surface of the printed circuit board
Not all SMDs can be wave soldered. Packages with solder balls, and some leadless packages which have
solder lands underneath the body, cannot be wave soldered. Also, leaded SMDs with leads having a pitch
smaller than ~0.6 mm cannot be wave soldered, due to an increased probability of bridging.
The reflow soldering process involves applying solder paste to a board, followed by component placement and
exposure to a temperature profile. Leaded packages, packages with solder balls, and leadless packages are all
reflow solderable.
Key characteristics in both wave and reflow soldering are:
• Board specifications, including the board finish, solder masks and vias
• Package footprints, including solder thieves and orientation
• The moisture sensitivity level of the packages
• Package placement
• Inspection and repair
• Lead-free soldering versus SnPb soldering
18.3  Wave soldering
Key characteristics in wave soldering are:
• Process issues, such as application of adhesive and flux, clinching of leads, board transport, the solder wave
parameters, and the time during which components are exposed to the wave
• Solder bath specifications, including temperature and impurities
18.4  Reflow soldering
Key characteristics in reflow soldering are:
• Lead-free versus SnPb soldering; note that a lead-free reflow process usually leads to higher minimum peak
temperatures (see Figure 38) than a SnPb process, thus reducing the process window
• Solder paste printing issues including smearing, release, and adjusting the process window for a mix of large
and small components on one board
PN7160_PN7161 All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers. © 2026 NXP B.V. All rights reserved.
Product data sheet Rev. 4.2 — 22 July 2026 Document feedback
58 / 70