NXP Semiconductors PN7160_PN7161
Near Field Communication (NFC) controller
Legal information
Data sheet status
Document status[1][2] Product status[3] Definition
Objective [short] data sheet Development This document contains data from the objective specification for product
development.
Preliminary [short] data sheet Qualification This document contains data from the preliminary specification.
Product [short] data sheet Production This document contains the product specification.
[1] Please consult the most recently issued document before initiating or completing a design.
[2] The term 'short data sheet' is explained in section "Definitions".
[3] The product status of device(s) described in this document may have changed since this document was published and may differ in case of multiple
devices. The latest product status information is available on the Internet at URL https://www.nxp.com.
Definitions
Draft — A draft status on a document indicates that the content is still
under internal review and subject to formal approval, which may result
in modifications or additions. NXP Semiconductors does not give any
representations or warranties as to the accuracy or completeness of
information included in a draft version of a document and shall have no
liability for the consequences of use of such information.
Short data sheet — A short data sheet is an extract from a full data sheet
with the same product type number(s) and title. A short data sheet is
intended for quick reference only and should not be relied upon to contain
detailed and full information. For detailed and full information see the
relevant full data sheet, which is available on request via the local NXP
Semiconductors sales office. In case of any inconsistency or conflict with the
short data sheet, the full data sheet shall prevail.
Product specification — The information and data provided in a Product
data sheet shall define the specification of the product as agreed between
NXP Semiconductors and its customer, unless NXP Semiconductors and
customer have explicitly agreed otherwise in writing. In no event however,
shall an agreement be valid in which the NXP Semiconductors product
is deemed to offer functions and qualities beyond those described in the
Product data sheet.
Disclaimers
Limited warranty and liability — Information in this document is believed
to be accurate and reliable. However, NXP Semiconductors does not give
any representations or warranties, expressed or implied, as to the accuracy
or completeness of such information and shall have no liability for the
consequences of use of such information. NXP Semiconductors takes no
responsibility for the content in this document if provided by an information
source outside of NXP Semiconductors.
In no event shall NXP Semiconductors be liable for any indirect, incidental,
punitive, special or consequential damages (including - without limitation -
lost profits, lost savings, business interruption, costs related to the removal
or replacement of any products or rework charges) whether or not such
damages are based on tort (including negligence), warranty, breach of
contract or any other legal theory.
Notwithstanding any damages that customer might incur for any reason
whatsoever, NXP Semiconductors’ aggregate and cumulative liability
towards customer for the products described herein shall be limited in
accordance with the Terms and conditions of commercial sale of NXP
Semiconductors.
Right to make changes — NXP Semiconductors reserves the right to
make changes to information published in this document, including without
limitation specifications and product descriptions, at any time and without
notice. This document supersedes and replaces all information supplied prior
to the publication hereof.
Suitability for use — NXP Semiconductors products are not designed,
authorized or warranted to be suitable for use in life support, life-critical or
safety-critical systems or equipment, nor in applications where failure or
malfunction of an NXP Semiconductors product can reasonably be expected
to result in personal injury, death or severe property or environmental
damage. NXP Semiconductors and its suppliers accept no liability for
inclusion and/or use of NXP Semiconductors products in such equipment or
applications and therefore such inclusion and/or use is at the customer’s own
risk.
Applications — Applications that are described herein for any of these
products are for illustrative purposes only. NXP Semiconductors makes no
representation or warranty that such applications will be suitable for the
specified use without further testing or modification.
Customers are responsible for the design and operation of their
applications and products using NXP Semiconductors products, and NXP
Semiconductors accepts no liability for any assistance with applications or
customer product design. It is customer’s sole responsibility to determine
whether the NXP Semiconductors product is suitable and fit for the
customer’s applications and products planned, as well as for the planned
application and use of customer’s third party customer(s). Customers should
provide appropriate design and operating safeguards to minimize the risks
associated with their applications and products.
NXP Semiconductors does not accept any liability related to any default,
damage, costs or problem which is based on any weakness or default
in the customer’s applications or products, or the application or use by
customer’s third party customer(s). Customer is responsible for doing all
necessary testing for the customer’s applications and products using NXP
Semiconductors products in order to avoid a default of the applications
and the products or of the application or use by customer’s third party
customer(s). NXP does not accept any liability in this respect.
Limiting values — Stress above one or more limiting values (as defined in
the Absolute Maximum Ratings System of IEC 60134) will cause permanent
damage to the device. Limiting values are stress ratings only and (proper)
operation of the device at these or any other conditions above those
given in the Recommended operating conditions section (if present) or the
Characteristics sections of this document is not warranted. Constant or
repeated exposure to limiting values will permanently and irreversibly affect
the quality and reliability of the device.
Terms and conditions of commercial sale — NXP Semiconductors
products are sold subject to the general terms and conditions of commercial
sale, as published at https://www.nxp.com/profile/terms, unless otherwise
agreed in a valid written individual agreement. In case an individual
agreement is concluded only the terms and conditions of the respective
agreement shall apply. NXP Semiconductors hereby expressly objects to
applying the customer’s general terms and conditions with regard to the
purchase of NXP Semiconductors products by customer.
No offer to sell or license — Nothing in this document may be interpreted
or construed as an offer to sell products that is open for acceptance or
the grant, conveyance or implication of any license under any copyrights,
patents or other industrial or intellectual property rights.
PN7160_PN7161 All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers. © 2026 NXP B.V. All rights reserved.
Product data sheet Rev. 4.2 — 22 July 2026 Document feedback
65 / 70