NXP Semiconductors PN7160_PN7161
Near Field Communication (NFC) controller
Quick reference data — The Quick reference data is an extract of the
product data given in the Limiting values and Characteristics sections of this
document, and as such is not complete, exhaustive or legally binding.
Export control — This document as well as the item(s) described herein
may be subject to export control regulations. Export might require a prior
authorization from competent authorities.
Suitability for use in non-automotive qualified products — Unless
this document expressly states that this specific NXP Semiconductors
product is automotive qualified, the product is not suitable for automotive
use. It is neither qualified nor tested in accordance with automotive testing
or application requirements. NXP Semiconductors accepts no liability for
inclusion and/or use of non-automotive qualified products in automotive
equipment or applications.
In the event that customer uses the product for design-in and use in
automotive applications to automotive specifications and standards,
customer (a) shall use the product without NXP Semiconductors’ warranty
of the product for such automotive applications, use and specifications, and
(b) whenever customer uses the product for automotive applications beyond
NXP Semiconductors’ specifications such use shall be solely at customer’s
own risk, and (c) customer fully indemnifies NXP Semiconductors for any
liability, damages or failed product claims resulting from customer design and
use of the product for automotive applications beyond NXP Semiconductors’
standard warranty and NXP Semiconductors’ product specifications.
HTML publications — An HTML version, if available, of this document is
provided as a courtesy. Definitive information is contained in the applicable
document in PDF format. If there is a discrepancy between the HTML
document and the PDF document, the PDF document has priority.
Translations — A non-English (translated) version of a document, including
the legal information in that document, is for reference only. The English
version shall prevail in case of any discrepancy between the translated and
English versions.
Security — Customer understands that all NXP products may be subject to
unidentified vulnerabilities or may support established security standards or
specifications with known limitations. Customer is responsible for the design
and operation of its applications and products throughout their lifecycles
to reduce the effect of these vulnerabilities on customer’s applications
and products. Customer’s responsibility also extends to other open and/or
proprietary technologies supported by NXP products for use in customer’s
applications. NXP accepts no liability for any vulnerability. Customer should
regularly check security updates from NXP and follow up appropriately.
Customer shall select products with security features that best meet rules,
regulations, and standards of the intended application and make the
ultimate design decisions regarding its products and is solely responsible
for compliance with all legal, regulatory, and security related requirements
concerning its products, regardless of any information or support that may be
provided by NXP.
NXP has a Product Security Incident Response Team (PSIRT) (reachable
at PSIRT@nxp.com) that manages the investigation, reporting, and solution
release to security vulnerabilities of NXP products.
NXP B.V. — NXP B.V. is not an operating company and it does not distribute
or sell products.
Licenses
Purchase of NXP ICs with NFC technology — Purchase of an NXP
Semiconductors IC that complies with one of the Near Field Communication
(NFC) standards ISO/IEC 18092 and ISO/IEC 21481 does not convey an
implied license under any patent right infringed by implementation of any of
those standards. Purchase of NXP Semiconductors IC does not include a
license to any NXP patent (or other IP right) covering combinations of those
products with other products, whether hardware or software.
Trademarks
Notice: All referenced brands, product names, service names, and
trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
NXP — wordmark and logo are trademarks of NXP B.V.
AMBA, Arm, Arm7, Arm7TDMI, Arm9, Arm11, Artisan, big.LITTLE,
Cordio, CoreLink, CoreSight, Cortex, DesignStart, DynamIQ, Jazelle,
Keil, Mali, Mbed, Mbed Enabled, NEON, POP, RealView, SecurCore,
Socrates, Thumb, TrustZone, ULINK, ULINK2, ULINK-ME, ULINK-
PLUS, ULINKpro, μVision, Versatile — are trademarks and/or registered
trademarks of Arm Limited (or its subsidiaries or affiliates) in the US and/or
elsewhere. The related technology may be protected by any or all of patents,
copyrights, designs and trade secrets. All rights reserved.
EdgeVerse — is a trademark of NXP B.V.
ICODE — is a trademark of NXP B.V.
I2C-bus — logo is a trademark of NXP B.V.
MIFARE — is a trademark of NXP B.V.
MIFARE Classic — is a trademark of NXP B.V.
MIFARE Ultralight — is a trademark of NXP B.V.
SmartMX — is a trademark of NXP B.V.
PN7160_PN7161 All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers. © 2026 NXP B.V. All rights reserved.
Product data sheet Rev. 4.2 — 22 July 2026 Document feedback
66 / 70