PAGE SECTION MESSAGE/CLASS FIELD NAME
93 7.13 ChargingProfile startSchedule
4.2. Generic: Use of Energy Meter vs Power Meter
The terms Energy Meter and Power Meter are use throughout the specification, but they are not used
consistently and the term: Electrical Meter seems to fit most cases even better.
List of all textual improvements for this:
PAGE SECTION OLD TEXT NEW TEXT
8 2.2 Defines the wiring order of the phases between the
energy meter (or if absent, the grid connection), and the
Charge Point connector.
Defines the wiring order of the phases between the
electrical meter (or if absent, the grid connection), and
the Charge Point connector.
38 4.7 A Charge Point MAY sample the energy meter or other
sensor/transducer hardware to provide extra
information about its meter values.
A Charge Point MAY sample the electrical meter or
other sensor/transducer hardware to provide extra
information about its meter values.
38 4.7 The Charging Point SHALL report all phase number
dependent values from the power meter (or grid
connection when absent) point of view.
The Charging Point SHALL report all phase number
dependent values from the electrical meter (or grid
connection when absent) point of view.
63 6.3 This contains the serial number of the main power
meter of the Charge Point.
This contains the serial number of the main electrical
meter of the Charge Point.
63 6.3 This contains the type of the main power meter of the
Charge Point.
This contains the type of the main electrical meter of
the Charge Point.
87 7.6 Failure to read power meter. Failure to read electrical/energy/ power meter.
116 9.1.21 The phase rotation per connector in respect to the
connector’s energy meter (or if absent, the grid
connection).
The phase rotation per connector in respect to the
connector’s electrical meter (or if absent, the grid
connection).
4.3. Page 13, section: 3.2: Typo in text about SupportedFeatureProfiles
Below the table with the mapping of messages to feature profiles, there is a typo: "charging profiles" instead of
"feature profiles".
Old text The support for the specific charging profiles is reported by the SupportedFeatureProfiles configuration key.
New text The support for the specific feature profiles is reported by the SupportedFeatureProfiles configuration key.
37